 
ENDURANCE TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED 
2nd Floor, Kumar Solitaire,  
S. No. 216B/218A/215A, 
Near Aga Khan Palace, Shastri Nagar, 
Nagar Road, Pune-411 006 (M.S.), India 
Tel: +91-20-68284200 
Fax: +91-20-26680894 
Website: www.endurancegroup.com 
CIN No. L34102MH1999PLC123296 
 
 
18th July, 2025 
 
BSE Limited, 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,  
Dalal Street, 
Mumbai - 400 001 
BSE Code: 540153 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited, 
Exchange Plaza, Bandra-Kurla  
Bandra (E), 
Mumbai - 400 051 
NSE Code: ENDURANCE 
Sub.: Notice of the Twenty Sixth Annual General Meeting and the Annual 
Report for the financial year 2024-25. 
    Ref.:  
1. Regulation 34(1) read with Regulation 30 of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, and 
2. Outcome letter dated 15th May, 2025, inter alia, informing the date of 
Twenty Sixth Annual General Meeting and related information. 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
This has reference to our letter dated 15th May, 2025, inter alia, informing that the 
Twenty Sixth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company will be held on 
Wednesday, 13th August, 2025.  
 
The Notice of the AGM, the Annual Report and the Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report for the financial year 2024-25 are available on the website of 
the Company at https://www.endurancegroup.com/investor-relations/. 
 
Further, we hereby inform that, the Company has commenced dispatch of Notice 
convening the AGM together with the Annual Report for the financial year 2024-25 
by electronic means to all its Members, who have registered their e-mail address 
with the Registrar and Transfer Agent of the Company / Depository Participants, 
and whose names appeared in the Register of Members / Beneficial Owners as of 
the close of business hours on Friday, 11th July, 2025.  
 
A letter containing the web-link, including the exact path for accessing the Notice of 
the AGM and the Annual Report, is being dispatched to those Members who have 
not registered their email addresses as mentioned above. 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company hereby is enclosing: 
i. 
Notice of AGM (including attendance slip, proxy form and route map for reaching 
the AGM venue and e-voting instructions); 
ii. 
Annual Report of the Company for the financial year 2024-25; and 
iii. Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the financial year 2024-25. 
 
We request you to take these documents on record. 
Thanking you, 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For Endurance Technologies Limited 
 
 
 
Sunil Lalai 
Company Secretary, Compliance Officer and Head – Legal 
Membership No.: A8078 
 
Encl.: As above 
Sunil 
Naresh Lalai
Digitally signed by 
Sunil Naresh Lalai 
Date: 2025.07.18 
16:48:13 +05'30'
NOTICE
ENDURANCE TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296
Registered Office: E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, 
Chh. Sambhajinagar – 431 136, Maharashtra
Phone No.: 0240 2569737, Fax No.: 0240 2569703
Website: www.endurancegroup.com, E-mail: investors@endurance.co.in 
Notice is hereby given that the Twenty Sixth Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”) of the Members of the Company will be held 
on Wednesday, 13th August, 2025 at 4.00 p.m. (IST) at Tango Hall, 
Gateway Aurangabad (formerly Vivanta by Taj), 8-N-12, CIDCO, 
Dr. Rafiq Zakaria Marg, Rauza Bagh, Chh. Sambhajinagar – 431 
003, Maharashtra, to transact the following businesses:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt the audited standalone 
financial statements of the Company for the financial year 
ended 31st March, 2025, together with the reports of the 
Board of Directors and Auditors thereon.
2.	
To receive, consider and adopt the audited consolidated 
financial statements of the Company for the financial 
year ended 31st March, 2025, together with the report of 
Auditors thereon.
3.	
To declare dividend on 140,662,848 equity shares of the 
Company at the rate of H 10 per equity share of face value 
H 10 each (100%) fully paid up, for the financial year ended 
31st March, 2025.
4.	
To appoint a director in place of Mr. Satrajit Ray 
(DIN - 00191467), who retires by rotation in terms of Section 
152(6) of the Companies Act, 2013, and being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
5.	
Ratification of remuneration to Mr. Jayant B. 
Galande,  Cost Auditor
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the 	 following 
resolution 
as 
an 
Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
148 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 14 of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 [including 
any statutory amendment(s), modification(s) thereto or re-
enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force] and such 
other provisions as may be applicable, the Company hereby 
ratifies the remuneration of H 550,000 (Rupees Five Hundred 
Fifty Thousand only), excluding applicable taxes and 
reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses at actuals, if any, 
incurred in connection with the audit, payable to Mr. Jayant 
B. Galande, Cost Accountant (Registration No. M-5255) who 
was appointed as the Cost Auditor of the Company by the 
Board of Directors of the Company (“Board”) based on the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, to conduct audit 
of the cost records maintained by the Company for the 
financial year ending 31st March, 2026.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board (including any 
Committee thereof) be and is hereby authorised to do all 
such acts, deeds, matters and things and to take all such 
steps as may be necessary, proper and expedient to give 
effect to this resolution.”
6.	
Re-appointment of Mrs. Varsha Jain (DIN - 
08947297) as a Director and Head – CSR and Facility 
Management
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, with or 
without modification(s), the following resolution as an 
Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 
196, 197, 198 and all other applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), the rules framed  thereunder 
read with Schedule V to the Act, applicable provisions of 
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, amendments thereto [including any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the 
time being in force], Articles of Association of the Company, 
and such other approvals, permissions and sanctions, 
as may be required and subject to such conditions and 
modifications, as may be prescribed or imposed by any of 
the authorities while granting such approvals, permissions 
and sanctions, and as recommended by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors of the 
Company (“Board”), approval be and is hereby accorded for 
the re-appointment of Mrs. Varsha Jain (DIN - 08947297), as 
an Executive Director, liable to retire by rotation, designated 
as Director and Head – CSR and Facility Management 
of the Company, on the following terms of appointment 
and remuneration:
	
I.	
Tenure:
	
	
The tenure of appointment is for a term of five years 
commencing from 10th November, 2025 up to and 
including 9th November, 2030.
	
II.	
Remuneration:
	
	
a.	
Basic salary:
	
	
	
Basic Salary of H 621,379 (Rupees Six Hundred 
Twenty One Thousand Three Hundred Seventy 
Nine only) per month.
	
	
b.	
Allowances:
 
 
House Rent Allowance equal to 50% of 
Basic salary per month.
01 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
 
 
Performance Allowance of H 480,156 
(Rupees Four Hundred Eighty Thousand 
One Hundred Fifty Six only) per month.
 
 
Leave Travel Allowance equivalent to one 
month basic salary per annum.
	
	
c.	
Performance based Variable Pay being 25% of the 
assured gross annual emoluments, applicable to 
employees in management cadre. The same 
shall be disbursed as per the Company’s policy 
after completion of each financial year.
	
III.	
Annual increment:
	
	
Increment of not more than 20% per annum over the 
annual gross remuneration of previous financial year, 
based on performance.
	
IV.	
Perquisites:
	
	
i.	
Allocation of Company maintained car.
	
	
ii.	
In case of own car [instead of opting for 
Company maintained car as mentioned in i. 
above] Car Allowance of H 384,000 (Rupees 
Three Hundred Eighty Four Thousand only) per 
annum which shall be paid on monthly basis. In 
addition, she is eligible for fuel reimbursement 
of up to H 180,000 (Rupees One Hundred Eighty 
Thousand only) per annum which shall be paid 
on monthly basis.
	
	
iii.	
Company’s contribution towards provident fund 
as per the rules.
	
	
iv.	
Eligible 
for 
paid 
leaves 
as 
per 
the 
Company’s policy.
	
	
v.	
Eligible for Gratuity / Ex-gratia as per law / 
Company policy, whichever is higher.
	
	
vi.	
Coverage under the Group Medical Health 
Insurance policy for self and family members as 
per the rules of the Company.
	
	
vii.	
Coverage under the Group Personal Accident 
Insurance policy as per the rules of the Company.
	
	
viii.	 Provision 
of 
Company 
paid 
mobile 
connection and handset.
	
V.	
Subject to any statutory ceiling, she may be given other 
benefits and facilities as per the Company’s rules / 
Policies or as the Board may decide, from time to time.
	
VI.	 Valuation of perquisites, etc:
	
	
The perquisites / allowances shall be valued as per the 
Income-tax rules, wherever applicable, and in absence 
of any such rules, shall be valued at actual cost.
	
VII.	 Minimum Remuneration:
	
	
Notwithstanding anything stated hereinabove, if, in 
any financial year, during the tenure of Mrs. Varsha 
Jain as an Executive Director, the Company incurs a 
loss or its profits are inadequate, the Company shall 
pay her remuneration by way of salary and other 
allowances not exceeding the limits as specified 
under the applicable provisions of the Act, as 
amended, from time to time, or such other limits as 
may be prescribed by the Central Government, from 
time to time, as minimum remuneration.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board [including any 
Committee(s) and / or any of the Director(s) or official(s) 
of the Company, duly authorised by the Board] be and is 
hereby authorised to alter or vary designation, the scope 
of remuneration of Mrs. Varsha Jain, Executive Director, 
including the monetary value thereof, from time to time, as 
may be considered appropriate.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the remuneration payable to 
Mrs. Varsha Jain, shall not exceed the overall ceiling of the 
total managerial remuneration as provided under Section 
197 of the Act or such other limits as may be prescribed, 
from time to time.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board [including any 
Committee(s) thereof and / or any of the Director(s) or 
official(s) of the Company, duly authorised by the Board] 
be and is hereby authorised to take all such steps as may 
be necessary, proper and expedient to give effect to 
this resolution.”
7.	
Re-appointment of Mr. Anurang Jain (DIN - 
00291662) as a Managing Director
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), 
the 
following 
resolution 
as 
an 
Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 
197, 198 and all other applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“Act”), the rules framed  thereunder read with 
Schedule V to the Act, applicable provisions of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
amendments thereto [including any statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force], Articles 
of Association of the Company, and such other approvals, 
permissions and sanctions, as may be required and subject 
to such conditions and modifications, as may be prescribed 
or imposed by any of the authorities while granting such 
approvals, permissions and sanctions, and as recommended 
by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the 
Board of Directors of the Company (“Board”), approval be and 
is hereby accorded for the re-appointment of Mr. Anurang Jain 
(DIN - 00291662), as Managing Director of the Company, 
not liable to retire by rotation, on the following terms of 
appointment and remuneration:
	
I.	
Tenure:
	
	
The tenure of appointment is for a term of five years 
commencing from 1st April, 2026 up to and including 
31st March, 2031.
	
II.	
Remuneration:
	
	
a.	
Basic salary:
	
	
	
Basic salary of H 2,973,000 (Rupees Two Million 
Nine 
Hundred 
Seventy 
Three 
Thousand 
only) per month.
02  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
	
	
b.	
Allowances:
	
	
	
Proportionate revision in allowances linked to 
the Basic salary.
	
III.	
Commission:
	
	
Commission, as may be determined by the Board, 
from time to time, based on net profit of the Company 
in a particular year, which put together with salary, 
allowances and perquisites, shall be subject to the 
overall ceiling laid down in the Act.
	
IV.	
Company’s contribution towards provident fund.
	
V.	
Eligible for Gratuity / Ex-gratia as per law / Company 
policy, whichever is higher.
	
VI.	 Annual increment:
	
	
Increment of not more than 20% per annum over the 
annual gross remuneration of previous financial year, 
based on performance.
	
VII.	 Perquisites and benefits:
	
	
Entitlement to following ‘perquisites and benefits’, 
value of which shall not exceed two months’ 
of Basic salary:
	
	
a)	
Domestic utilities: Reimbursement / payment 
for domestic utilities such as gas, electricity, 
water and repairs related thereto.
	
	
b)	
Furniture 
and 
Furnishings: 
Provision 
of 
furniture, fixtures and furnishings (soft and 
hard) at residence.
	
	
c)	
Provision for services of security, labour, 
gardener(s), sweeper(s), cook(s), watchmen 
and such other personnel, as may be required 
at his residence.
	
	
d)	
Company Car: Use of the Company’s car for 
official work as well as for personal purposes, 
along with driver.
	
	
e)	
Telecommunication 
facilities: 
Providing 
and payment of telephones, tele-fax, video 
conferencing, internet connection and other 
communication facilities at residence for official 
and personal use.
	
	
f)	
Medical Reimbursement: Reimbursement / 
payment of medical expenses incurred in India 
and / or abroad, for self, spouse and dependent 
children including hospitalisation, nursing home 
and surgical charges, air-fare, boarding / lodging 
for the patient and attendant.
	
	
g)	
Personal accident and Mediclaim Policy: Personal 
Accident Insurance policy and Mediclaim policy 
for self, spouse and dependent children.
	
	
h)	
Club Fees: Annual fees for club memberships. 
This will include admission and / or life 
membership fee.
	
	
i)	
Credit Card: Reimbursement / payment of 
annual fee for up to two credit cards.
	
	
j)	
Reimbursement of cost of books and periodicals.
	
	
k)	
Other benefits as may be applicable to senior 
executives of the Company.
	
	
Following shall be excluded from the ceiling of two 
months’ Basic salary, prescribed above:
	
	
l)	
Leave with full pay with encashment of un-
availed leave, as per rules of the Company.
	
VIII.	 Subject to any statutory ceiling, the Managing 
Director may be given other benefits and facilities 
as per Company’s rules or as the Board may decide, 
from time to time.
	
IX.	 Valuation of perquisites, etc.:
	
	
The perquisites / allowances shall be valued as per 
the Income-tax rules, wherever applicable, and in the 
absence of any such rules, the same shall be valued 
at actual cost.
	
X.	
Minimum Remuneration:
	
	
Notwithstanding anything stated hereinabove, if, in 
any financial year, during the tenure of Mr. Anurang 
Jain as Managing Director, the Company incurs a 
loss or its profits are inadequate, the Company shall 
pay him remuneration by way of salary and other 
allowances not exceeding the limits as specified 
under the applicable provisions of the Act, as 
amended, from time to time, or such other limits as 
may be prescribed by the Central Government, from 
time to time, as minimum remuneration.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board [including any 
Committee(s) thereof and / or any of the Director(s) or 
official(s) of the Company, duly authorised by the Board] 
be and is hereby authorised to alter or vary designation, 
the scope of remuneration of Mr. Anurang Jain, Managing 
Director, including the monetary value thereof, from time 
to time, as may be considered appropriate.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the remuneration payable to 
Mr. Anurang Jain, shall not exceed the overall ceiling of the 
total managerial remuneration as provided under Section 
197 of the Act or such other limits as may be prescribed, 
from time to time.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board [including any 
Committee(s) thereof and / or any of the Director(s) or 
official(s) of the Company, duly authorised by the Board] 
be and is hereby authorised to take all such steps as may 
be necessary, proper and expedient to give effect to 
this resolution.”
8.	
Re-appointment of Mr. Indrajit Banerjee (DIN - 
01365405) as an Independent Director of the 
Company
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, with or 
without modification(s), the following resolution as a 
Special Resolution:
03 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 
149, 150, 152 read with Schedule IV and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) and 
the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) 
Rules, 2014 (“Rules”) and applicable provisions of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”) and amendments 
thereto [including any statutory modification(s) and / or 
re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force], and 
as recommended by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company 
(“Board”), Mr. Indrajit Banerjee (DIN - 01365405) who was 
appointed as an Independent Director and holds office up 
to and including 8th February, 2026, and being eligible, be 
and is hereby re-appointed as an Independent Director on 
the Board, not liable to retire by rotation, to hold office for a 
second term of five consecutive years commencing from 9th 
February, 2026 up to and including 8th February, 2031.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to Regulation 17(1A) 
of the Listing Regulations, approval be and is hereby 
accorded  for continuation of Mr. Indrajit Banerjee, beyond 
14th January, 2031, as an independent director of the 
Company on account of his attaining the age of 75 years 
on the said date.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 149, 197 and other applicable provisions of the 
Act and the Rules, Mr. Indrajit Banerjee be paid such fees 
and remuneration by way of commission, as the Board 
may approve, from time to time, and subject to such limits 
prescribed or as may be prescribed, from time to time.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board [including any 
Committee(s) thereof and / or any of the Director(s) or 
official(s) of the Company, duly authorised by the Board] 
be and is hereby authorised to take all such steps as may 
be necessary, proper and expedient to give effect to 
this resolution.”
9.	
Appointment of Mrs. Dipali Sheth (DIN - 07556685) 
as an Independent Director of the Company
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, with or 
without modification(s), the following resolution as a 
Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 
149, 150, 152 and any other applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), the rules framed thereunder 
read with Schedule IV to the Act and the applicable 
provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 
and 
amendments 
thereto [including any statutory modification(s) and / or re-
enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force], Mrs. Dipali 
Sheth (DIN - 07556685) who was appointed by the Board 
of Directors of the Company (“Board”) at its meeting held 
on 15th May, 2025, based on the recommendation of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, as an additional 
director, with effect from 1st August, 2025, pursuant to 
Section 161(1) of the Act, holds office up to this Annual 
General Meeting and qualifies for being appointed as an 
Independent Director and in respect of whom the Company 
has received notice(s), in writing, under Section 160 of the 
Act, proposing her candidature for the office of Director, be 
and is hereby appointed as an Independent Director of the 
Company, not liable to retire by rotation, for a period of five 
consecutive years, up to and including 31st July, 2030.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 149, 197 and other applicable provisions of the 
Act and the Rules made thereunder, Mrs. Dipali Sheth be 
paid such fees and remuneration by way of commission 
as the Board may approve, from time to time, and 
subject to such limits prescribed or as may be prescribed, 
from time to time.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board [including any 
Committee(s) thereof and / or any of the Director(s) or 
official(s) of the Company, duly authorised by the Board] 
be and is hereby authorised to take all such steps as may 
be necessary, proper and expedient to give effect to 
this resolution.”
10.	 Appointment of M/s. J. B. Bhave & Co., Company 
Secretaries, as  Secretarial Auditor of the Company
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, with or 
without modification(s), the following resolution as an 
Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Regulation 24A and other 
applicable provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 [including any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for 
the time being in force], and applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the rules framed thereunder and 
as recommended by the Audit Committee and the Board 
of Directors of the Company (“Board”), M/s. J. B. Bhave & 
Co., Company Secretaries, Pune (Peer Review Certificate 
Number - 1238/2021) be and is hereby appointed as the 
Secretarial Auditor of the Company to undertake audit 
of its secretarial and related records for a term of five 
consecutive financial years i.e. for the financial year(s) 2025-
26 to 2029-30, on such remuneration as may be determined 
by the Board in consultation with the Secretarial Auditor.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any of the Directors and / or 
the Company Secretary of the Company, be and are hereby 
authorised to settle any question, difficulty or doubt, that 
may arise in giving effect to this resolution and to do all such 
acts, deeds and things as may be necessary, expedient and 
desirable, in this regard.”
By Order of the Board of Directors
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
        Sunil Lalai
	
	
  	
	
	
	
          Company Secretary and 
Date: 15th May, 2025	 	
	 	
	
       Executive Vice President – Legal
Place: Mumbai	 	
	
	 	
       	
	
Membership No. A8078
04  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
NOTES:
1.	
A Statement setting out the material facts pursuant to 
Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) and 
applicable Secretarial Standards, relating to special 
businesses to be transacted at the Twenty Sixth Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM” / “Meeting”), is annexed to 
the Notice.
2.	
A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE AT THE 
AGM IS ENTITLED TO APPOINT A PROXY TO ATTEND 
AND VOTE ON HIS / HER BEHALF AND THE PROXY 
NEED NOT BE A MEMBER OF THE COMPANY. A person 
can act as proxy on behalf of Members up to and not 
exceeding 50 Members and holding in the aggregate 
not more than 10% of the total share capital of the 
Company. Further, a Member holding more than 10% of 
the total share capital of the Company carrying voting 
rights may appoint a single proxy and such person shall 
not act as proxy for any other Member. The instrument 
appointing proxy must be deposited at the Registered 
Office of the Company not less than 48 hours before 
commencement of the AGM.
3.	
During the period beginning 24 hours before the time 
fixed for commencement of the AGM and ending with 
conclusion of the AGM, a Member would be entitled to 
inspect proxies lodged at any time during the business 
hours of the Company, provided not less than three days’ 
written notice is given to the Company.
4.	
Members / proxies / authorised representatives are 
requested to bring the attendance slip(s) / proxy form(s) 
duly filled in and signed for attending the AGM along 
with their identity proof for the purpose of identification. 
Members to write their DP ID and Client ID on the 
attendance slip for attending the AGM and hand over the 
same at the entrance of the venue.
5.	
Any query relating to the financial statements must be sent 
to the Company’s e-mail ID at investors@endurance.co.in 
or to the Registered Office of the Company at least seven 
days before the date of the AGM.
6.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 91 of the Act, the 
Register of Members and the Share Transfer Books of the 
Company will remain closed from Saturday, 2nd August, 
2025 to Wednesday, 13th August, 2025 (both days inclusive) 
for determining the Members entitled for dividend.
7.	
Dividend and related information:
	
The Board of Directors of the Company, at its meeting 
held on 15th May, 2025, has recommended a dividend 
of H 10 per equity share of face value H 10 each (100%) 
fully paid up, for the financial year 2024-25. Dividend, if 
declared, at the AGM will be credited / dispatched within 
the prescribed statutory timelines to the Members or 
their mandates whose names appear as Members or as 
beneficial owners (holding shares in electronic form), as 
per the beneficial ownership data to be furnished by the 
depositories viz. National Securities Depository Limited 
(“NSDL”) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
(“CDSL”) [NSDL and CDSL shall collectively be referred to 
as “Depositories” hereinafter] as of Friday, 1st August, 2025 
(“Record Date”).
	
As per the Income-tax Act, 1961 (“IT Act”), the Company 
would be required to deduct Tax at Source (“TDS”) at the 
time of making payment of the dividend, as approved by 
the Members. The rate of TDS would vary depending on the 
residential status of the shareholders and the documents 
submitted by them and accepted by the Company.
	
Resident Shareholders:
	
Tax shall be deducted at source under Section 194 of the IT 
Act @ 10% on the amount of dividend where shareholders 
have registered their valid Permanent Account Number 
(“PAN”) with their respective Depositories and if valid PAN 
is not submitted, tax would be deducted @ 20% as per 
Section 206AA of the IT Act.
	
No tax shall be deducted at source on the dividend 
payable to a resident individual if the total dividend to be 
received by the said individual from the Company during 
a financial year does not exceed H 10,000; or if an eligible 
resident shareholder provides a valid declaration in Form 
15G / 15H or other documents as may be applicable to 
different categories of shareholders. The said form(s) may 
be provided by the shareholder, by way of an e-mail at 
dividendtax@endurance.co.in, or may be uploaded on the 
Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agent’s  ("RTA's") portal 
at 
https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/formsreg/submission-
of-form-15g-15h.html.
	
Further, if a shareholder has obtained a lower or Nil 
withholding tax certificate from the tax authorities and 
provides a copy of the same to the Company, tax shall be 
deducted on the dividend payable to such shareholder at 
the rate specified in the said certificate.
	
Non-resident Shareholders:
	
Tax is required to be deducted at source in the case of non-
resident shareholders in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 195 of the IT Act, at the rates in force. As per 
the relevant provisions of the IT Act, TDS on dividend 
shall be @ 20% or applicable rate plus surcharge, and 
health and education cess on the amount of dividend 
payable to the non-resident shareholders. For FII / FPI 
shareholders, Section 196D of the IT Act provides for TDS 
@ 20% or applicable rate plus surcharge and health and 
education cess. However, as per Section 90 of the IT Act, 
non-resident shareholders have the option to be governed 
by the provisions of the Double Tax Avoidance Agreement 
(“DTAA”) read with applicable Multilateral Instrument 
provisions, if they are more beneficial to them.
	
Non-resident shareholders are required to submit self-
attested copy of Form 10F, Tax Residency Certificate, 
self-declaration that the shareholder does not have a 
permanent establishment in India and copy of the PAN 
allotted by the Indian Income Tax Authorities for opting 
beneficial rate under the Tax Treaty.
05 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
	
Non-resident shareholders should upload declaration at 
https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/formsreg/submission-of-
form-15g-15h.html or e-mail at dividendtax@endurance.co.in.
	
A list of documents / declarations required to be provided 
by the resident shareholders and list of documents / 
declarations required to claim the benefit of DTAA by 
non-resident shareholders are available on the Company’s 
website 
at 
https://www.endurancegroup.com/investor-
relation/shareholders-form/.
	
Important Note:
	
No communication on tax determination / deduction shall 
be entertained after 1st August, 2025.
	
The above referred documents submitted will be verified 
by the Company and the same shall be considered 
while deducting the appropriate taxes, if any, provided 
that these documents are in accordance with the 
provisions of the IT Act.
	
In addition to the above, please note the following:
	
i.	
In case you hold shares under multiple accounts under 
different status / category but under a single PAN, the 
highest rate of tax as applicable to the status in which 
shares are held under the said PAN will be considered 
on the entire holding in different accounts.
	
ii.	
In case of joint shareholding, the withholding tax 
rates shall be considered on the basis of the status 
of the primary beneficial shareholder. For TDS, the 
Company would be relying on the above data shared 
by the RTA as updated, up to the Record Date. It 
may be further noted that in case tax on dividend is 
deducted at a higher rate in the absence of receipt of 
any of the aforementioned details / documents from 
the Members, they may consider filing their return of 
income and claiming an appropriate refund, as may 
be eligible. No claim shall lie against the Company for 
such taxes deducted.
	
	
The Company shall arrange to send soft copy of the 
TDS certificate to the Members at their registered 
e-mail ID within the prescribed time, post payment 
of the said dividend, if declared in the AGM. The said 
certificate can also be viewed in Form 26AS, which 
can be downloaded from their e-filing account at 
https://www.incometax.gov.in/iec/foportal.
	
	
In 
the 
event 
of 
any 
income 
tax 
demand 
(including interest, penalty, etc.) arising from any 
misrepresentation, 
inaccuracy 
or 
omission 
of 
information provided by the shareholder(s), such 
shareholder(s) will be responsible to indemnify the 
Company, and also provide the Company with all 
information / documents and co-operation in any 
assessment / appellate proceedings before the Tax / 
Government authorities.
	
For any additional information, kindly refer “Communication 
on TDS on Dividend Distribution” available at https://www.
endurancegroup.com/investor-relation/shareholders-form/.
8.	
In terms of Schedule I of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing 
Regulations”), listed companies are required to use the 
Reserve Bank of India’s approved electronic mode of 
payment such as Electronic Clearance Service (“ECS”), 
Local ECS / Regional ECS / National ECS, Direct Credit, 
Real Time Gross Settlement, National Electronic Fund 
Transfer / NACH etc., for making payment of dividend 
to its Members.
	
Accordingly, Members holding securities in demat mode 
are requested to update their bank account details with 
their respective Depository Participants (“DPs”).
	
To avoid fraudulent transactions, the identity / signature of 
the Members holding shares in electronic / demat form is 
verified with the specimen signatures furnished by NSDL / 
CDSL. Members are requested to keep the same updated.
9.	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 152(6) of the 
Act, Mr. Satrajit Ray (DIN - 00191467) will retire by rotation 
at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, has offered 
himself for re-appointment.
	
Pursuant to Regulation 36 of the Listing Regulations, 
additional information in respect of Mr. Satrajit Ray, seeking 
re-appointment upon retirement by rotation at the AGM, is 
annexed to the Notice.
10.	 In terms of Regulation 36 of the Listing Regulations, 
Sections 101 and 136 of the Act read with the rules made 
thereunder, electronic copy of the Annual Report is being 
sent to all the Members whose e-mail IDs are registered 
with the Company / DPs for communication purposes 
unless any Member has requested for a hard copy of the 
same. A request for hard copy of the Annual Report may 
be sent to investors@endurance.co.in or rnt.helpdesk@
in.mpms.mufg.com mentioning the DP ID and Client ID.
	
Henceforth, physical copy of Annual Report of the Company 
will not be sent to the Members who have not registered 
their e-mail IDs with the Company / RTA / Depositories, as 
the said requirement has been dispensed with by SEBI vide 
its notification dated 12th December, 2024.
11.	 Members desirous of receiving communication from the 
Company in electronic form, may register their e-mail IDs 
with their respective DPs.
	
To support the ‘Green Initiative’, Members who have 
not registered their e-mail IDs with the Company / RTA 
/ DPs are requested to log in to the website of RTA, 
https://in.mpms.mufg.com/ under Investor Services > 
E-mail Registration, fill in the details, upload the required 
documents and submit.
06  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
	
Further, Members are also requested to approach their DPs 
to register their e-mail IDs in their demat account details as 
per the process defined by the respective DPs.
12.	 SEBI has mandated every participant in securities market 
to update KYC details. Members holding shares in 
dematerialised form are requested to submit / update their 
KYC details with their respective DPs.
13.	 Members can avail nomination facility pertaining to their 
shareholding in the Company by filing Form SH-13, as 
prescribed under Section 72 of the Act and Rule 19(1) of 
the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 
2014 with the Company or the RTA. If a Member desires 
to opt out or cancel the earlier nomination and record a 
fresh nomination, he / she may submit the same in Form 
ISR-3 or Form SH-14, as the case may be. Blank forms 
are available on website of the Company at https://
www.endurancegroup.com/investor-relations 
and 
also 
on website of RTA at https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/
KYC-downloads.html.
14.	 Members are hereby informed that unclaimed dividend 
over a period of seven consecutive years from the date 
of transfer of such dividends to the respective Unpaid 
Dividend Account(s) of the Company is required to be 
transferred by the Company to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund (“IEPF”).
	
During 
the 
financial 
year 
2024-25, 
the 
Company 
had transferred:
	
i.	
an amount of H 47,383 (Rupees Forty Seven Thousand 
Three Hundred Eighty Three) to IEPF (being unclaimed 
dividend amount for the financial year 2016-17), and
	
ii.	
corresponding 309 (Three Hundred Nine) equity 
shares (on which dividend remained unclaimed for 
seven consecutive years) to the demat account of the 
IEPF Authority;
	
and that the same can be claimed from the IEPF Authority 
after complying with the prescribed procedure under 
the IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and 
Refund) Rules, 2016.
	
List of Members whose shares have been transferred to 
IEPF are uploaded on website of the Company at https://
www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/
list-of-shareholders-transfer-of-shares-to-IEPF-2024-
endurance-technologies-ltd.pdf and on the website of the 
IEPF authority as well.
	
Following table provides the dates on which unclaimed 
dividend and their corresponding shares would become 
liable to be transferred to the IEPF:
 
 
 
Financial Year
Date of declaration of 
dividend / interim dividend
Amount of unpaid / unclaimed 
dividend as on 31st March, 2025 (in J)
Completion of seven years from 
transfer of dividend to unpaid account*
2017-18
6th September, 2018
40,688.00
11th October, 2025
2018-19
8th August, 2019
44,440.00
12th September, 2026
2019-20
3rd March, 2020
120,703.00
7th April, 2027
2020-21
25th August, 2021
44,425.00
24th September, 2028
2021-22
24th August, 2022
51,755.75
23rd September, 2029
2022-23
23rd August, 2023
64,015.00 24th September, 2030
2023-24
23rd August, 2024
71,279.50
23rd September, 2031 
	
* Unclaimed dividend amount shall be transferred within 30 days of the dates mentioned above
	
Members are requested to claim their dividends for 
these years, if not already claimed. Details of unclaimed 
dividend up to 31st March, 2025 are uploaded on website 
of the Company at https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/06/Statement-of-unclaimed-and-
unpaid-dividends-as-on-31st-March-2025.pdf and on the 
website of the IEPF authority as well.
15.	 Members may note that the Notice of AGM and Annual 
Report for the financial year 2024-25 are also available 
on the Company’s website at www.endurancegroup.
com, websites of the stock exchanges i.e. BSE Limited 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.
bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com, respectively, and on 
website of the e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL at www.
evoting.nsdl.com.
16.	 Documents referred in the Notice of AGM and the 
Statement are open for inspection, without any fee, at 
the Registered Office of the Company on all working days 
(Monday to Friday) from 10.00 a.m. to 1.00 p.m., except 
public holidays, up to the date of the AGM i.e. Wednesday, 
13th August, 2025.
17.	 Following statutory registers will be available for inspection 
by the Members at the Registered Office of the Company 
on all working days (Monday to Friday), up to the date of 
the AGM, between 10.00 a.m. and 1.00 p.m.:
	
i.	
Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which 
directors are interested under Section 189 of the Act.
	
ii.	
Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
and their shareholding under Section 170 of the Act.
	
The said registers shall be kept open for inspection during 
the AGM and shall be made accessible to any Member 
attending the same.
07 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
18.	 Voting through electronic means:
	
I.	
The instructions for voting by electronic means are 
as under:
	
	
The remote e-voting period begins on Saturday, 9th 
August, 2025 at 9:00 a.m. (IST) and ends on Tuesday, 
12th August, 2025 at 5:00 p.m. (IST). The remote 
e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting 
thereafter. The Members, whose names appear in the 
Register of Members / Beneficial Owners as on the 
Cut-off Date for e-voting i.e. Wednesday, 6th August, 
2025 are eligible to cast their vote(s), electronically. 
The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion 
to their respective share in the paid-up equity share 
capital of the Company as on the Cut-off Date.
	
	
Any person who acquires shares of the Company 
and becomes its Member after dispatch of the 
Notice of AGM and holds shares as on the Cut-off 
Date, may obtain login id and password by sending 
a request at evoting@nsdl.com or to the Company at 
investors@endurance.co.in.
	
	
Instructions for voting electronically using NSDL 
e-voting system
	
	
The procedure to vote electronically on NSDL e-voting 
system consists of ‘two steps’, as mentioned below:
	
	
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-voting system
	
	
A) 	 Login method for e-voting for individual Members holding securities in demat form:
	
	
	
In terms of the SEBI circular dated 9th December, 2020 on e-voting facility to be provided by listed companies, individual 
members holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained with the 
depository participants. Members are advised to update their mobile number and e-mail ID in their demat accounts 
in order to access the e-voting facility. Login method for individual members holding securities in demat mode:
 
Type of Members
Login Method
Individual Members 
holding securities in 
demat mode with 
NSDL
1.	 For OTP based login, click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/
evotinglogin.jsp. Enter your 8-character DP ID, 8-digit Client ID, PAN, Verification code 
and generate OTP. Enter the OTP received on registered e-mail ID / mobile number and 
click on login. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository 
site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on the Company name or e-Voting service 
provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for casting 
your vote during the remote e-voting period.
2.	 Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-SERVICES website of NSDL viz. https://eservices.
nsdl.com either on personal computer or on mobile. On e-SERVICES home page, click 
on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” available under ‘IDeAS’ section, this will 
prompt the Member to enter his / her existing User ID and Password. After successful 
authentication, Member will be able to see e-voting services under Value Added Services. 
Click on “Access to e-voting” under e-voting services and Member will be able to see 
e-voting page. Click on the Company’s name or e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL and 
Member will be re-directed to e-voting website of NSDL for casting his / her vote during 
the remote e-voting period.
3.	 If a Member is not registered for IDeAS e-SERVICES, option to register is available at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://
eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp  
4.	 Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing: https://www.evoting.
nsdl.com either on personal computer or on mobile. Once the home page of e-voting 
system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder / 
Member’ section. A new screen will open. Member will have to enter his / her User ID (i.e. 
Member’s 16 character  demat account number held with NSDL), Password / OTP and 
a verification code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, Member will 
be redirected to NSDL depository site wherein Member will be able to see the e-voting 
page. Click on Company name or e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL and Member will 
be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for casting his / her vote during the remote 
e-voting period.
08  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
 
Type of Members
Login Method
5.	 Member can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speed-e” facility by scanning the 
QR code mentioned below, for seamless voting experience.
	
Individual Members 
holding securities in 
demat mode with 
CDSL
1.	 Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing 
user ID and password. Option will be made available to reach e-voting page without any 
further authentication. Users to login Easi / Easiest to visit CDSL website - www.cdslindia.
com and click on login icon and New System Myeasi Tab and then use existing my easi 
username and password.
2.	 After successful login, ‘Easi / Easiest’ user will be able to see the e-voting option for 
eligible companies where the e-voting is in progress as per the information provided by 
the Company. Upon clicking the e-voting option, user will be able to see e-voting page 
of NSDL for casting his / her vote during the remote e-voting period. Additionally, links 
are also provided to access the system of all e-voting service providers, so that the user 
can visit e-voting service providers’ website directly.
3.	 If user is not registered for Easi / Easiest, option to register is available on website of 
CDSL i.e. www.cdslindia.com by clicking on login and new system Myeasi Tab and then 
click on registration option.
4.	 Alternatively, user can directly access e-voting page by providing demat account 
number and PAN from an e-voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The 
system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered mobile and e-mail ID as 
recorded in the demat account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see 
the e-voting option where the e-voting is in progress and will also be able to directly 
access the system of all e-voting service providers.
Individual Members 
(holding securities 
in demat mode) 
login through 
their depository 
participants
Users can also login using the login credentials of his / her demat account through their 
respective depository participant registered with NSDL / CDSL for e-voting facility. Upon login, 
user will be able to see e-voting option. Click on e-voting option and user will be redirected to 
site of the respective depository after successful authentication, wherein e-voting feature can 
be accessed. Click on name of the Company or that of e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL and 
Member will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for casting vote.
	
	
	
Important note: 
	
	
	
Members who are unable to retrieve User ID / Password are advised to use ‘Forgot User ID’ and ‘Forgot Password’ 
options available on the website of respective depositories viz. NSDL at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com and CDSL at 
www.cdslindia.com. 
	
	
	
Helpdesk for individual Members holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues relating to login 
through respective depository i.e. NSDL or CDSL:
 
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Members holding securities in 
demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL 
helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.com or call at toll free 
no.: 022 - 4886 7000
Individual Members holding securities in 
demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL 
helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or 
contact at toll free no.: 1800 21 09911
09 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
	
	
B)  	 Login method for e-voting for Members other than individual Members holding securities in demat mode. 
	
	
	
Procedure for logging-in to e-voting website of NSDL
	
	
	
i.	
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com either on 
personal computer or on mobile. 
	
	
	
ii.	
Once home page of the e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder / Member’ section.
	
	
	
iii.	
A new screen will open. Members will have to enter their User ID, Password / OTP and a verification code as 
shown on the screen.
	
	
	
	
Alternatively, if Member is registered for NSDL e-SERVICES i.e. IDeAS, it can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.
com with the existing IDeAS login. Once the Member has logged-in to NSDL e-SERVICES after using the log-in 
credentials, click on e-voting and Member can proceed to Step no. 2 i.e. Instructions to cast vote electronically 
on NSDL’s e-voting system.
	
	
	
iv.	
User ID details for Members are given below:
 
Manner of holding shares i.e. 
Demat with NSDL / CDSL
User ID is:
For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with NSDL
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example, if Member’s DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** then 
Member’s user ID is IN300***12******.
For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with CDSL
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example, if Member’s Beneficiary ID is 12************** then 
Member’s user ID is 12**************
	
	
	
v.	
Password details for Members other than individual Members:
	
	
	
	
a)	
Members who have already registered for e-voting, can use their existing password to login and cast vote.
	
	
	
	
b)	
If a Member is using NSDL e-voting system for the first time, ‘initial password’ will have to be retrieved which 
is communicated to the Member in the manner mentioned below. Once ‘initial password’ is retrieved, enter 
the same and system will prompt the Member to change its password.
	
	
	
	
c)	
The manner to retrieve ‘initial password’:
	
	
	
	
	
(i)	If Member’s e-mail ID is registered in its demat account or with the Company, ‘initial password’ is 
communicated to the Member on their registered e-mail ID through an encrypted file. The password 
to open the .pdf file is Member’s 8-digit Client ID for NSDL account, last 8 digits of Client ID for CDSL 
account. The .pdf file contains Member’s ‘User ID’ and ‘initial password’.
	
	
	
	
	
(ii)	If Member’s e-mail ID is not registered, please follow the steps mentioned on page no. 11.
	
	
	
vi.	
If a Member is unable to retrieve password or has not received 'Initial password’ or has forgotten the password, 
please follow the steps mentioned below:
	
	
	
	
a)	
Click on “Forgot User Details / Password?” option available on https://www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
	
	
b)	
If Member is still unable to get the password, he / she can send a request to evoting@nsdl.com mentioning 
demat account number / folio number, PAN, name and registered address.
	
	
	
	
c)	
Members can also use OTP based login for casting votes on the e-voting system of NSDL.
	
	
	
vii.	
After entering password, select the check-box ‘Agree’ to “Terms and Conditions”.
	
	
	
viii.	 Click on “Login” option.
	
	
	
ix.	
Thereafter, home page of e-voting will open.
10  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
	
	
Step 2: Instructions to cast vote electronically on 
NSDL’s e-voting system:
	
	
i.	
After successful login at Step no. 1, Members will 
be able to see all the companies “EVEN” where he 
/ she is a shareholder and whose voting is active.
	
	
ii.	
Select “EVEN” of the Company.
	
	
iii.	
Now, Member is ready for e-voting as the 
voting page opens.
	
	
iv.	
Member can cast vote by selecting appropriate 
option i.e. assent or dissent, verify / modify the 
number of shares for which the Member wishes 
to cast vote and click on “Submit” and also 
“Confirm” when prompted.
	
	
v.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed.
	
	
vi.	
Members can also take printout of the votes 
cast by them by clicking on print option on the 
confirmation page.
	
	
vii.	
Once the vote on a resolution is confirmed, 
Member will not be allowed to modify the same.
	
	
General guidelines for Members
	
	
A.	
Institutional Members (i.e. other than individuals, 
HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send scanned 
copy in .pdf / .jpg format of the relevant Board 
Resolution / Power of Attorney / Letter of 
Authority, etc. with attested specimen signature 
of the duly authorised signatory(ies) authorised 
to attend the AGM and vote in terms of Section 
113 of the Act, by e-mail, to the Company at 
investors@endurance.co.in, or to the Scrutiniser 
at sarika@skapcs.com with a copy marked 
to evoting@nsdl.com. Institutional Members 
(i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) can 
also upload their Board Resolution / Power of 
Attorney / Letter of Authority, etc. by clicking on 
"Upload Board Resolution / Letter of Authority" 
displayed under "e-voting" tab in their login.
	
	
B.	
It is recommended not to share password 
with any other person and to keep the same 
confidential. Login to the e-voting website will 
be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts 
to key in the correct password. In such an event, 
user will need to go through “Forgot User 
Details / Password?” or “Physical User Reset 
Password?” options as available on https://www.
evoting.nsdl.com, to reset the password.
	
	
C.	
In case of any queries, refer the Frequently Asked 
Questions (FAQs) and e-voting user manual, for 
Members, available in the download section 
at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on toll 
free no.: 022 - 4886 7000 or send a request to 
Mr. Sagar Gudhate, Senior Manager - NSDL at 
evoting@nsdl.com.
	
	
Procedure for Members whose e-mail IDs are not 
registered with the Depositories for procuring 
user ID and password, and registration thereof 
for e-voting for resolutions set out in this 
Notice:
	
	
i.	
Please provide DP ID and Client ID, Name, 
client master or copy of consolidated account 
statement, self-attested scanned copy of PAN, 
self-attested scanned copy of Aadhaar Card to 
investors@endurance.co.in. If Member is an 
individual Member holding securities in demat 
mode, he / she is requested to refer to the login 
method explained at Step no. 1 (A) i.e. Login 
method for e-voting for individual Members 
holding securities in demat mode.
	
	
ii.	
Alternatively, Members may send a request to 
evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user ID and 
password for e-voting by providing the above 
mentioned documents.
	
	
iii.	
In terms of the SEBI circular dated 9th December, 
2020 on e-voting facility provided by listed 
companies, 
individual 
Members 
holding 
securities in demat mode are allowed to vote 
through their demat account maintained with 
Depositories 
and 
Depository 
Participants. 
Members are required to update their mobile 
number and e-mail ID correctly in their demat 
account in order to access the e-voting facility.
	
II.	
Voting at the AGM:
	
	
The Chairman at the AGM, shall at the end of 
discussion on the resolutions, on which voting is 
to be held, allow voting, with the assistance of the 
Scrutiniser, by ballot / venue e-voting system for 
Members who are present at the AGM but have not 
cast their votes earlier through remote e-voting facility.
19.	 The Company has appointed Mrs. Sarika Kulkarni, 
Practicing Company Secretary (Membership No. F8478 
and COP No. 9045) or in her absence, Mr. Sachin Bhagwat, 
Practicing Company Secretary (Membership No. A10189 
and COP No. 6029), as the Scrutiniser to review that the 
process of e-voting and voting at the venue of the AGM 
is conducted in a fair and transparent manner and issue 
a report on the votes through remote e-voting and those 
cast at the AGM.
20.	 Declaration of results on the resolutions:
	
i.	
The Scrutiniser shall, immediately after conclusion 
of voting at the AGM, count the votes cast at the 
Meeting, unblock the votes cast through remote 
e-voting in presence of at least two witnesses not 
in the employment of the Company. The Scrutiniser 
shall make, not later than two working days 
from conclusion of the Meeting, a consolidated 
Scrutiniser’s Report of the total votes cast in favour 
or against each resolution, invalid votes, if any, and 
whether the resolution(s) has / have been carried or 
11 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
not. This Report shall be submitted to the Chairman 
or a person authorised by him, in writing, who shall 
countersign the same.
	
ii.	
The results shall be declared after the AGM of the 
Company and shall be deemed to be passed on 
the date of the AGM. The results along with the 
Scrutiniser’s Report shall be placed on the website 
of the Company at www.endurancegroup.com within 
two working days of passing of the resolutions at the 
AGM and shall be communicated to BSE Limited and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited, where the 
Company’s equity shares are listed. NSDL, who has 
provided the platform for facilitating remote e-voting, 
will also display these results on its website at https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com. The said results shall also be 
displayed at the Registered Office of the Company.
21.	 Route-map to reach venue of the AGM is annexed 
herewith as per the requirement of the applicable 
Secretarial Standards.
22.	 Members can contact RTA of the Company for queries 
relating to their shareholding at:
	
MUFG Intime India Private Limited
	
(formerly Link Intime India Private Limited)
	
C 101, 1st Floor, C Tower, 247 Park, L B S Marg,
	
Vikhroli West,
	
Mumbai - 400 083
	
Tel No.: (0) 810 811 6767
	
Toll-free No.: 1800 1020 878
23.	 In case of joint holders attending the AGM, the Member 
whose name appears as the first holder in the order of 
names as per the Register of Members of the Company 
will be entitled to vote at the AGM, if they have not voted 
previously using the remote e-voting facility.
24.	 Request to Members to register / update their e-mail IDs 
with the Company / Depository, so that the notice and 
related documents can be served on their e-mail IDs.
25.	 Entire shareholding of the Company held by its Members is 
in dematerialised form.
12  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE
Details of Directors seeking re-appointment at the Twenty Sixth Annual General Meeting
[Pursuant to the Secretarial Standard - 2 on General Meetings and Regulation 36(3) of  
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
Item No. 4:
Information about the director retiring by rotation - 
Name
Mr. Satrajit Ray
DIN:
00191467
Date of appointment
Mr. Satrajit Ray had been associated with the Company in the capacity of Executive 
Director from 6th June, 2014 up to 5th June, 2024, during which, he served as Director 
and Group Chief Financial Officer. Subsequently, with effect from 6th June, 2024, he 
continues to be on the Board of Directors of the Company ("Board") as a Non-executive 
Non-independent Director.  
Date of Birth / Age
16th February, 1959 / 66 years
Qualification(s)
Commerce graduate from the University of Calcutta and an Associate member of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Experience and nature of expertise
Mr. Ray holds experience of over 40 years. He started his career in 1984 with Indian 
Aluminium Company Limited ("Indal"). Indal was a subsidiary of Alcan Aluminium Limited, 
Canada. He worked with Indal in various capacities - Internal audit, Treasury, headed 
Finance and Legal functions of their group companies. In the year 2000, Indal was taken 
over by the Aditya Birla Group and became a subsidiary of Hindalco Industries Limited 
("Hindalco"). During his tenure with Hindalco, he was the Financial Controller, from 
mid-2006 till March 2007 and held additional charge as Head of Business Development. 
He was also a member of the core team of Hindalco which worked on the acquisition 
of Novelis. In April 2007, he joined MIRC Electronics Ltd. as the Chief Financial Officer 
where he headed the Finance and the Legal and Secretarial functions. 
Mr. Ray has been associated with the Company since April 2010 as Group Chief 
Financial Officer of the Company. He was elevated to the position of Executive Director 
on 6th June, 2014. As the Director and Group Chief Financial Officer of the Company, 
he was responsible for Finance and Accounts, Treasury, Legal and Secretarial, Investor 
Relations and Information Technology functions of the Company. His tenure as a Whole-
time Director and Group Chief Financial Officer concluded on 5th June, 2024. Effective 
6th June, 2024, he continued his association with the Company as a Non-executive, 
Non-independent Director.
Nature of expertise in specific functional 
areas
 
 
Domain knowledge of auto / auto component industry,
 
 
Financial knowledge and expertise,
 
 
Strategy and Planning,
 
 
Business Management,
 
 
Law and Governance.
Relationship with other Directors, and Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company
None
Directorship(s) in other listed companies as 
on 31st March, 2025
None
Memberships / Chairmanship of 
Committees as on 31st March, 2025
Stakeholders Relationship Committee - Member
Memberships / Chairmanship of 
Committees of other companies as on 31st 
March, 2025
None
Shareholding in the Company
Nil
Attendance at the Board meetings held 
during the financial year 2024-25
Five meetings of the Board were held and Mr. Ray attended all of them.
13 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
Remuneration drawn in the financial year 
2024-25
 
 
Remuneration of H 29.42 million as the Director and Group Chief Financial Officer 
of the Company till 5th June, 2024;
 
 
Sitting fees of H 0.28 million for attending Board and Committee meetings as the 
Non-executive Director with effect from 6th June, 2024; and 
 
 
Remuneration by way of Commission of H 2.62 million payable to him as the Non-
executive Director. 
Terms and conditions of re-appointment
Mr. Ray is a Non-executive, Non-independent Director of the Company and is liable to 
retire by rotation. He is entitled for sitting fees for attending meetings of the Board and 
its Committees and remuneration by way of commission as the Board may approve, 
from time to time and subject to such limits prescribed or as may be prescribed, from 
time to time.
Listed entities from which Mr. Ray has 
resigned as director in the past three years
None
Mr. Ray is not disqualified from being appointed as the Director in terms of Section 164 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) and he is 
not debarred from holding the office of director pursuant to any order of SEBI or of any such other regulatory authority.
Except for Mr. Ray, none of the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and / or their relatives are, in any way, 
concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in this item. 
The proposal for his re-appointment as the Director, liable to retire by rotation, is placed before the Members for their approval at 
item no. 4 of this Notice. The Board recommends the same for approval of the Members.
14  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
A Statement setting out the material facts in respect of the special businesses pursuant to Section 102 of the Act
Item No. 5:
Ratification of remuneration to Mr. Jayant B. Galande, Cost Auditor
Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 14 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (“Audit Rules”) provides for:
 
 
appointment of Cost Accountant in practice, to conduct audit of cost records of a company, by the board of directors on the 
recommendation of the audit committee; and 
 
 
ratification of remuneration payable to him by the members of the company.
In terms of the aforesaid provisions, the Board of Directors of the Company ("Board"), at its meeting held on 15th May, 2025 and upon 
the recommendation of the Audit Committee, has approved the appointment of Mr. Jayant B. Galande, Cost Accountant in Practice, 
as Cost Auditor of the Company for the financial year 2025-26. The remuneration fixed for his appointment is H 550,000 (Rupees Five 
Hundred Fifty Thousand only) excluding applicable taxes and reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses, at actuals. 
The said appointment is for cost audit of the following business activities of the Company for the financial year 2025-26:
a.	
manufacturing of engine components;
b.	
manufacturing of dies and moulds; and
c.	
generation of electricity through windmill.
During the financial year 2024-25, the above business activities constituted 20.24% of the total turnover of the Company.
In terms of Rule 14 of the Audit Rules, the Members are requested to consider and ratify the remuneration payable to Mr. Galande, 
as mentioned in the resolution at item no. 5 of the Notice.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and / or their relatives are, in any manner, concerned or 
interested in the said resolution.
In view of the foregoing, the Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at item no. 5 of the Notice for approval of the Members.
Item No. 6:
Re-appointment of Mrs. Varsha Jain (DIN - 08947297) as a Director and Head – CSR and Facility Management
The existing tenure of Mrs. Varsha Jain as Director and Head – CSR and Facility Management of the Company expires on 9th November, 
2025. Accordingly, as per the provisions of Section 196 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) and based on the recommendation 
of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors of the Company ("Board") at its meeting held on 15th 
May, 2025, has re-appointed Mrs. Jain as Executive Director, designated as Director and Head – CSR and Facility Management of 
the Company for an additional term of five years effective 10th November, 2025. This re-appointment is subject to approval by the 
Members of the Company.
Information relating to Mrs. Varsha Jain including her profile is mentioned below for perusal of the Members:
Name
Mrs. Varsha Jain
DIN
08947297
Date of appointment and designation
Mrs. Varsha Jain was appointed as Executive Director, designated as Director and Head – 
CSR and Facility Management of the Company on 10th November, 2020.
Date of Birth / Age
27th April, 1967 / 58 years
Qualification(s)
She is a Bachelor of Science in Accounting and Finance from the United States International 
University - Africa, Nairobi, Kenya.
Experience and nature of expertise
Mrs. Varsha Jain was appointed as an Executive Director, designated as Director and Head 
- CSR and Facility Management of the Company, with effect from 10th November, 2020 up 
to and including 9th November, 2025. 
She has close to three decades of experience in interior designing, landscaping and 
architecture. Prior to her appointment as a member of the Board, Mrs. Jain served as an 
Executive Vice President of the Company, overseeing CSR and Facility Management since 
May 2015. Mrs. Jain pioneered numerous Corporate Social Responsibility ("CSR") initiatives 
to foster sustainable community development in villages, demonstrating leadership in social 
responsibility well before it was mandated by the Companies Act, 2013. Mrs. Jain has been 
actively involved in implementing the CSR projects and programmes approved by the CSR 
Committee and the Board, especially the Village Development Project and running of the 
Vocational Training Centre. 
15 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
As an executive in-charge of the CSR function, Mrs. Jain exemplified her commitment 
towards the society by adopting villages in proximity to the plants of the Company. Activities 
were undertaken to fulfil basic needs of hygiene, sanitation, provision of drinking water, 
education, livelihood generation, community development and environment conservation. 
During the mandatory lockdown announced due to Covid-19 pandemic, she spearheaded 
a host of activities which included distribution of food kits, donation of testing equipment 
to hospitals undertaking Covid-19 treatment, providing financial assistance to families in 
low income groups and running a Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients. 
As the head of Facility Management, she oversees the civil construction in the organisation. 
With a wealth of experience in interior designing, she is involved in setting up and 
maintenance of the Company’s offices, gardens and guest houses. The Company has been 
consistently receiving awards for best gardens and plantations for the last several years 
for the Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar region. Under Mrs. Jain’s leadership, the Company’s 
Horticulture Department received the Challenge Trophy for overall performance at 
The Empress Botanical Garden Flower Show in 2024 and 2025, organised by The Agri 
Horticultural Society of India (Western Region) in Pune, along with 30 first prizes and 28 
second prizes for excellence.
Nature of expertise in specific functional 
areas
 
 
Strategy and Planning, 
 
 
Business Management,
 
 
Law and Governance.
Relationship 
with 
other 
Directors, 
and Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company
Mrs. Varsha Jain is the spouse of Mr. Anurang Jain, Managing Director of the Company.
Directorship(s) in other listed companies 
as on 31st March, 2025
None
Memberships 
/ 
Chairmanship 
of 
Committees as on 31st March, 2025
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee - Member
Memberships 
/ 
Chairmanship 
of 
Committees of other companies as on 
31st March, 2025
None
Shareholding in the Company
80 (Eighty) shares 
Attendance at the Board meetings held 
during the financial year 2024-25
Five meetings of the Board were held and Mrs. Jain attended all of them.
Proposed Remuneration (H)
As mentioned in the resolution forming part of this Notice at item no. 6.
Remuneration drawn in the financial 
year 2024-25
H 18.21 million
Terms and conditions of re-appointment It is proposed to re-appoint Mrs. Jain as an Executive Director, designated as Director 
and Head - CSR and Facility Management of the Company for a period of five years with 
effect from 10th November, 2025. She shall be entitled to remuneration as approved by the 
Members of the Company and as per the terms and conditions detailed in item no. 6 of 
this Notice.
Listed entities from which Mrs. Jain has 
resigned as director in the past three 
years
None
Key roles and responsibilities of Mrs. Varsha Jain as 
Director and Head – CSR and Facility Management:
Mrs. Jain is entrusted with the development of Company’s 
CSR strategy in accordance with Section 135 of the Act and 
the applicable rules. Her responsibilities include identifying, 
planning, and executing CSR projects in alignment with the CSR 
Policy approved by the Board.
Additionally, she provides strategic guidance to the CSR team 
to foster meaningful engagement with local communities 
surrounding the Company’s plants and manufacturing units. 
Her role also encompasses securing necessary approvals from 
the Board and CSR Committee, executing and monitoring 
CSR plans, presenting comprehensive reports to the CSR 
Committee and the Board.
Mrs. Jain also oversees the maintenance and upkeep of 
the Company’s plants, facilities and guest houses, including 
responsibilities related to civil construction and interior design. 
She manages facility budgets, ensures optimal utilisation of 
utilities, and leads sustainability initiatives such as gardening 
and horticulture.
Mrs. Jain is not disqualified from being appointed as the Director 
in terms of Section 164 of the Act and she is not debarred from 
holding the office of director pursuant to any order of SEBI or of 
any such other regulatory authority.
16  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
None of the Directors and / or Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company or their relatives, except the following, to the extent of 
their respective shareholding in the Company:
i.	
her spouse, Mr. Anurang Jain, Managing Director;
ii.	
her daughter, Mrs. Rhea Jain Kapoor – Vice President – 
Strategic Projects and Business Controller;
iii.	
her son, Mr. Rohan Jain, Vice President – Products  and 
Strategy;
iv.	
her father in law, Mr. Naresh Chandra, as the family trustee 
of Anurang Rhea Trust; and
v.	
her mother in law, Mrs. Suman Jain, as the family 
trustee of NC Trust
are deemed to be concerned or interested in the said resolution.
In view of the foregoing, the Board recommends the Ordinary 
Resolution set out at item no. 6 for approval of the Members.
Item No. 7:
Re-appointment of Mr. Anurang Jain (DIN - 00291662) as 
Managing Director
The existing tenure of Mr. Anurang Jain as Managing Director 
of the Company expires on 31st March, 2026. Accordingly, as 
per the provisions of Section 196 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“Act”) and based on the recommendation of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors of the 
Company ("Board") at its meeting held on 15th May, 2025, has 
re-appointed Mr. Jain as Managing Director of the Company 
for another term of five years effective 1st April, 2026. This 
re-appointment is subject to approval by the Members 
of the Company.
Mr. Anurang Jain is a first generation entrepreneur with sharp 
business acumen, in-depth knowledge of auto industry and 
firm and determined focus on long-term profitable growth of 
Endurance Group. Under his leadership, the Group has grown 
both organically and inorganically and has transitioned from 
a two die casting machine plant operation to a technology 
intensive proprietary product portfolio comprising suspension, 
braking systems, transmission components and advanced 
electronics. With a proven track record in global automobile 
component manufacturing, he brings extensive expertise across 
diverse markets within this domain. He has been instrumental 
in driving the profitable growth and strategic expansion of 
the Endurance Group. The Group has operations with 33 
manufacturing facilities in major auto hubs of India and Europe 
(Italy and Germany).
Mr. Jain has spearheaded operational excellence and profitable 
growth in India and Europe through strategic acquisitions and 
collaborations. He has fostered an innovation focused, customer 
centric, quality first culture at Endurance Group by driving 
total productive maintenance, implementing agile strategies 
and critical consolidations, and nurturing the Endurance 
Vendor Association.
Mr. Jain believes that continuous technological upgradation is key 
to sustainable and profitable growth. This is being ensured through 
five in-house Research & Development (“R&D”) centres that are 
approved by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research 
and strongly supported by technology inputs from global leaders 
through technology and know-how transfers and collaboration 
for joint-development. The Company’s efforts towards increasing 
its operational efficiency, R&D capabilities and focus on QCDDM 
parameters has earned the Company its position as a complete 
solutions provider for its diverse range of technology-intensive 
products to major two, three and four wheeler OEMs.
He has led the Company on a growth trajectory, with key 
strategic initiatives like consolidation of its operations, 
outsourcing of non-critical operations, strengthening of R&D 
and diversification of customer base. Even during challenges 
like the Covid-19 pandemic and the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the 
Company improved its margins and financial ratios under his 
leadership and has stayed ahead of the growth curve compared 
to the auto industry.
The Company is a preferred Tier-I supplier to major OEMs, both 
in India and overseas. In February 2025, Mr. Jain was felicitated 
with the ‘2024 Hurun India Self Made Entrepreneur of the 
Year’, in recognition of his outstanding contributions to India’s 
economic growth.
He has been instrumental in implementing innovative strategies 
of de-risking through unique product mix and foraying into new 
products through organic and inorganic growth. His philosophy 
is to stay ahead of peers by developing and offering new and 
technologically upgraded products. Mr. Jain’s leadership in 
securing technical collaborations with global industry leaders 
and driving technological advancements in the Company’s 
operations has enabled it to maintain a competitive edge.
Mr. Jain also heads the Management Committee comprising the 
senior-most executives of the Company. They periodically review 
the performance of every vertical of the Company. The objective 
is to strengthen the Company’s systems and capabilities while 
continuing to focus on implementation of best-in-class corporate 
governance practices and risk management. He is also on the 
Board of its direct subsidiaries in Europe and he oversees their 
operations and advises on organic and inorganic growth and 
other strategic matters.
Mr. Jain’s strong ability to successfully drive business even 
during adverse economic conditions, while being grounded to 
the Company’s corporate values has earned him respect both 
as a leader and a mentor. His re-appointment as the Managing 
Director of the Company will be in the best interest of the 
Company for continued benefit from his vast knowledge and 
enriched experience and gain strong foothold to widen its 
footprint in domestic and overseas automotive sector.
17 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
Information relating to Mr. Anurang Jain including his profile is mentioned below for perusal of the Members:
Name
Mr. Anurang Jain
DIN
00291662
Date of appointment and designation
Mr. Anurang Jain is the promoter director of the Company and has been the 
Director since its incorporation i.e. 27th December, 1999. 
Date of Birth / Age
21st March, 1962 / 63 years
Qualification(s)
Mr. Jain holds a Master’s degree in Business Administration from the University of 
Pittsburgh. 
Experience and nature of expertise
Mr. Jain has close to four decades of experience in the automobile components 
industry. Under his leadership, the Endurance group has grown both organically 
and inorganically and has transitioned from a single product manufacturer of 
aluminium die-casting components to technology intensive proprietary product 
portfolio comprising suspension, braking systems and transmission components.
Nature of expertise in specific functional areas
 
 
Domain knowledge of auto / auto component industry, 
 
 
Strategy and Planning, 
 
 
Business Management, 
 
 
Financial knowledge and expertise,
 
 
Law and Governance, 
 
 
Human Resources and Industrial Relations,
 
 
Technology, Research and Development.
Relationship with other Directors, and Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company
Mr. Anurang Jain is the spouse of Mrs. Varsha Jain, Director and Head – CSR and 
Facility Management of the Company. 
Directorship(s) in other listed companies as on 
31st March, 2025
None
Memberships / Chairmanship of Committees 
as on 31st March, 2025
a.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee - Chairman;
b.	 Risk Management Committee - Chairman; 
c.	 Stakeholders' Relationship Committee - Member; and
d.	 Finance Committee - Chairman
Memberships / Chairmanship of Committees 
of other companies as on 31st March, 2025
None
Shareholding in the Company
Shareholding of Mr. Jain in the Company is as follows: 
i. 	 43,396,896 equity shares in individual capacity; and 
ii. 	 28,300,000 equity shares in his capacity as the family trustee of Anurang Rohan 
Trust.
Attendance at the Board meetings held during 
the financial year 2024-25
Five meetings of the Board were held and Mr. Jain attended all of them.
Proposed Remuneration (H)
As mentioned in the resolution forming part of this Notice at item no. 7.
Remuneration drawn in the financial year 2024-25
H 74.81 million.
Terms and conditions of re-appointment
It is proposed to re-appoint Mr. Jain as the Managing Director of the Company 
for a period of five years with effect from 1st April, 2026, not liable to retire by 
rotation. He shall be entitled to remuneration as approved by the Members of the 
Company and as per the terms and conditions detailed in item no. 7 of this Notice.
Listed entities from which Mr. Jain has resigned 
as Director in the past three years
None
Mr. Jain is not disqualified from being appointed as the Director in terms of Section 164 of the Act and he is not debarred from holding 
the office of director pursuant to any order of SEBI or of any such other regulatory authority.
None of the Directors and / or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their relatives, except the following, to the extent of their 
respective shareholding in the Company:
i.	
his spouse, Mrs. Varsha Jain, Director and Head – CSR and Facility Management;
ii.	
his daughter, Mrs. Rhea Jain Kapoor – Vice President – Strategic Projects and Business Controller;
iii.	
his son, Mr. Rohan Jain, Vice President – Products and Strategy; 
iv.	
his father, Mr. Naresh Chandra, as the family trustee of Anurang Rhea Trust; and
v.	
his mother, Mrs. Suman Jain, as the family trustee of NC Trust
are deemed to be concerned or interested in the said resolution.
In view of the foregoing, the Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at item no. 7 for approval of the Members.
18  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Item No. 8:
Re-appointment of Mr. Indrajit Banerjee (DIN - 01365405) as an Independent Director of the Company
Pursuant to Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) 
Rules, 2014 (“Rules”), Mr. Indrajit Banerjee was appointed as Independent Director on the Board of Directors of the Company 
(“Board”), by the Members for a term of five consecutive years with effect from 9th February, 2021. His term of appointment is expiring 
on 8th February, 2026.
Based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and after taking into account the performance 
evaluation of Mr. Banerjee, the Board is of the view that his continued association as an Independent Director would be beneficial and 
in the larger interest of the Company. Considering his knowledge, acumen, expertise and the contribution made by him during his 
tenure as an Independent Director, the Board recommends re-appointment of Mr. Banerjee for a second term of five consecutive years.
Information relating to Mr. Banerjee including his profile is mentioned below for perusal of the Members:
Name
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
DIN
01365405
Date of Appointment
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee was appointed as an Independent Director on the Board for the 
first term of five consecutive years with effect from 9th February, 2021. 
Date of Birth / Age
14th January, 1956 / 69 years
Designation
Non-executive Independent Director
Qualification(s)
He is an Associate member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Experience and nature of expertise
He has a career spanning more than 40 years. Mr. Banerjee began his career at 
Price Waterhouse, subsequently taking on roles in the pharmaceutical, healthcare, 
hydrocarbon, and metal industries, where he built extensive experience in finance, 
strategy, legal, IT, mergers and acquisitions, and general management functions. He 
served as Chief Financial Officer / Executive Director in Ranbaxy, Lupin, Cairn India 
and Indian Aluminium Company Limited. He helped these companies transform into 
technology-led efficient organisations with superior competitive strength.
During his professional journey, Mr. Banerjee helped companies adapt to market 
changes, transform into innovative organisations, expand their market presence, 
and create significant stakeholder value. He managed situations of high growth, 
mobilised large capital investment from global investors, implemented new-age ERP 
systems, facilitated major M&A transactions and managed integration thereafter, 
restructured complex organisations to achieve efficiency in capital usage and helped 
organisations achieve significant cost efficiency and productivity improvement.    
In most of the functions that he worked in, the key business deliverable was creating 
globally competitive strength that helped build sustainable business. He helped 
create cost synergies for global operations in the pharmaceutical industry, build 
robust cost effective infrastructure for greenfield hydrocarbon upstream facilities, 
rationalised multi-unit operation to make significant improvement of productivity in 
marketing and supply chain functions, among others. 
While performing his roles in the organisations he worked for, he focused, inter alia, 
on establishing good corporate governance practices, re-engineering of internal 
processes and systems to improve financial controls, establishing reliable risk-
management platform, creating reliable stakeholder management processes and 
training and development of talent.
Nature of expertise in specific functional 
areas
 
 
Strategy and Planning, 
 
 
Business Management,
 
 
Financial Knowledge and expertise,
 
 
Law and Governance
Relationship with other Directors, and Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company
None
Directorship(s) in other listed companies as 
on 31st March, 2025
Fortis Healthcare Limited
Memberships / Chairmanship of 
Committees as on 31st March, 2025
1.	 Audit Committee - Chairman 
2.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee - Member
3.	 Risk Management Committee - Member
19 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
Memberships / Chairmanship of 
Committees of other companies as on 31st 
March, 2025
1.	 Fortis Healthcare Limited:
	
a.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee – Member;
	
b.	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee – Member;
	
c.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member;
	
d.	 Audit Committee – Chairman.
2.	 Fortis Hospotel Limited:
	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member.
3.	 Agilus Diagnostics Limited:
	
a.	 Audit and Risk Management Committee – Member;
	
b.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee – Member.
Shareholding in the Company
Nil
Attendance at the Board meetings held 
during financial year 2024-25
Five meetings of the Board were held and Mr. Banerjee attended all of them.
Remuneration drawn in the financial year 
2024-25
Remuneration by way of commission of H 3.60 million; and
Sitting fees of H 1.02 million for attending the Board and Committee meetings.
Terms and conditions of re-appointment
Re-appointment for a second term of five consecutive years commencing from 9th 
February, 2026 up to and including 8th February, 2031, on the Board. He shall be 
entitled to such fees and remuneration by way of commission as the Board may 
approve, from time to time and subject to such limits prescribed or as may be 
prescribed, from time to time.
Listed entities from which Mr. Banerjee has 
resigned as director in the past three years
None
The Board is of the opinion that Mr. Banerjee fulfils the conditions specified in the Act for his re-appointment as an Independent Director.
Mr. Banerjee has given a declaration to the Board that he meets the criteria of independence as provided in Section 149(6) of the Act 
and Regulation 16 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”). Further, 
the Company has also received following declarations / confirmations from him:
i.	
consent in writing to act as Director;
ii.	
declaration that he is not disqualified under Section 164(2) of the Act; and
iii.	
a declaration to the effect that he is not debarred from holding the office of Director pursuant to any order issued by the SEBI.
Further, Mr. Banerjee will attain the age of 75 years on 14th January, 2031, during the proposed second term of appointment. The 
Board is of the view that considering his rich experience, multi-faceted role as member of various Committees of the Board and 
especially his guidance and support as Chairman of the Audit Committee, his continued association during the second term of five 
consecutive years, shall be of immense significance and value to the Company.
Pursuant to Regulations 17(1A) of the Listing Regulations, consent of Members by way of Special Resolution is required for continuation 
of directorship of Non-executive Director of the Company, after the incumbent has attained the age of 75 years. Considering 
that Mr. Banerjee shall attain the age of 75 years during his second term, the Company seeks consent of the Members for him to 
continue as Director.
The Board recommends the Special Resolution set out at item no. 8 of the Notice for re-appointment of Mr. Banerjee, not liable 
to retire by rotation, including for his continuance as Director of the Company after he attains the age of 75 years, for the approval 
of the Members.
A copy of the draft letter for the re-appointment of Mr. Banerjee as an Independent Director, setting out the terms and conditions of 
re-appointment, will be available for electronic inspection without any fee, by the Members from the date of circulation of this Notice 
up to the conclusion of remote e-voting i.e. up to 12th August, 2025. Members seeking to inspect such documents can send an e-mail 
to investors@endurance.co.in.
None of the Directors and / or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and / or their relatives, except Mr. Banerjee, are deemed 
to be concerned or interested in the said resolution.
20  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Item No. 9:
Appointment of Mrs. Dipali Sheth (DIN - 07556685) as an Independent Director of the Company 
The Board of Directors of the Company ("Board") at its meeting held on 15th May, 2025, based on the recommendation of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, has approved the appointment of Mrs. Dipali Sheth as an Additional Director (in the 
capacity as an Independent Director) of the Company, in terms of Sections 149, 150, 152, Schedule IV and other applicable provisions, 
if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014 and 
amendments thereto [including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force]. Mrs. Sheth shall 
hold office as a Director for a period of five consecutive years from 1st August, 2025, not liable to retire by rotation, and subject to 
approval of the Members.
In this regard, the Company has received notice(s) under Section 160 of the Act from Members proposing her candidature for being 
appointed as a Director of the Company.
Information relating to Mrs. Sheth including her profile is mentioned below for perusal of the Members:
Name
Mrs. Dipali Sheth
Date of appointment
1st August, 2025
DIN
07556685
Date of Birth / Age
4th July 1965 / 59 years 
Designation
Independent Director
Qualification(s)
BA Economics (Honours)
Experience and Nature of expertise
Mrs. Sheth has a career spanning around three decades. She holds a Bachelor 
of Arts (Honours) in Economics from the University of Delhi. She has expertise in 
Strategy, Human Resources, Marketing, Sales, Distribution, Mergers & Acquisitions, 
transformational growth, restructuring and organisational growth domestically, 
internationally and expansion especially for companies in India, South East Asia, 
United Kingdom and Middle Eastern regions. She has worked for private sector banks, 
FMCG companies, and a reputed University. She served as Country Head of Human 
Resources at the Royal Bank of Scotland ("RBS"), India and contributed significantly 
towards integrating ABN Amro Bank into the RBS systems and culture, building 
leadership, people, and organisational strategy, and set up target operating models 
and divestment of the bank in India. She has also worked with Standard Chartered 
Bank (“SCB”) in Learning, Talent Acquisition and Global Strategy. Her last role in SCB 
was of HR Head South Asia where she supervised HR across South Asia, led the growth 
of the Wholesale Bank and gained valuable strategy and change experience in several 
acquisitions, viz. SCB acquisitions of the Grindlays and the American Express.
Prior to working at SCB, she worked with Procter & Gamble India Limited (“P&G”) 
for six years, where she was the first woman leader to be hired in Sales. At P&G, she 
contributed to Marketing, Sales and Training functions.
She also helped build the vision and growth of Ashoka University, Sonipat, Haryana. 
At Ashoka, she also worked with Centre for Social Impact Planning and Centre for 
Social and Behavioural Change. She is an alumna of the India Leaders for Social Sector 
program and has served and guided NGOs in the Social sector such as Seva Sadan, 
Support, Aspire for Her, Beyond Diversity, and Yuva Unstoppable, supporting social 
ventures in imparting financial literacy to students.
She is an ACC-accredited coach with The International Coaching Federation, USA, 
a Gallup Strengths-based Coach, a mentor and coach to several emerging men and 
women leaders on a pro bono basis. 
She has worked across India and has been based in London, Singapore and Dubai for 
several strategic programs and projects. She is passionately committed to community 
service, healthcare and the environment and is a voracious reader with diverse interests 
in economics, quantum physics, the evolution of societies around the world, humour 
and spirituality.
Nature of skills /expertise / in specific 
functional areas of the Company
i.	
Strategy and Planning,
ii. 	 Business Management,
iii. 	 Human Resources and Industrial Relations.
Relationship with other Directors, and Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company
None
21 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
Directorship(s) in other listed companies as 
on 31st March, 2025
i. 	 Adani Airport Holdings Limited (Debt Listed); 
ii. 	 Welspun Corp Limited;
iii. 	 Spandana Sphoorty Financial Limited;
iv. 	 AWL Agri Business Limited; and 
v.	 Latent View Analytics Limited.
Memberships / Chairmanship of 
Committees as on 31st March, 2025
Not Applicable
Memberships / Chairmanship of 
Committees of other companies as on  
31st March, 2025
i. 	 AWL Agri Business Limited:
	
a.	 Audit Committee – Member;
	
b.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee – Chairperson;
	
c.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member; and
	
d.	 ESG Committee – Chairperson.
ii.	 Welspun Corp Limited: 
	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee – Member.
iii.	 Spandana Sphoorty Financial Limited:
	
a. 	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee – Chairperson; and
	
b.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member.
iv. 	 Adani Airport Holdings Limited:
	
a. 	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee – Chairperson; 
	
b. 	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member; 
	
c. 	 Corporate Responsibility Committee – Member; and
	
d. 	 Safety Committee – Member.
v.	 Latent View Analytics Limited:
	
a. 	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee – Chairperson; and
	
b. 	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member.
vi. 	 UTI Pension Fund Limited:
	
a. 	 Audit Committee – Member;
	
b. 	 Risk Management Committee – Chairperson; and
	
c. 	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee – Member.
vii. 	DFM Foods Limited:
	
a. 	 Audit Committee – Member;
	
b. 	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee – Chairperson; and
	
c. 	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Chairperson.
Shareholding in the Company
None
Attendance at the Board meetings held 
during the financial year 2024-25
Not Applicable
Proposed Remuneration
Mrs. Sheth shall be entitled to sitting fees for attending Board and Committee meetings 
(as and when co-opted as a member) and remuneration by way of commission as 
computed under the applicable provisions of the Act and as decided by the Board.
Remuneration drawn in the financial year 
2024-25
Not Applicable
Terms and conditions of appointment
It is proposed to appoint Mrs. Sheth as an Independent Director of the Company for 
a period of five consecutive years from 1st August, 2025 up to and including 31st July, 
2030 and shall not be liable to retire by rotation.
Listed entities from which Mrs. Sheth has 
resigned as director in the past three years
 
 
UTI Asset Management Company Limited
 
 
Welspun Speciality Solutions Limited
Mrs. Sheth possesses the skills and capabilities required, as mentioned in the aforesaid table, for the role of an Independent Director 
of the Company.
The Board is of the opinion that Mrs. Sheth fulfils the conditions specified in the Act for her appointment as an Independent Director 
and that she is independent of the management. 
22  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Mrs. Sheth has provided a declaration to the Board that she meets the criteria of independence as provided in Section 149(6) of the 
Act and Regulation 16 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. Further, the Company has 
also received the following declarations / confirmations from her:
i.	
consent in writing to act as Director;
ii.	
declaration that she is not disqualified under Section 164(2) of the Act; and
iii.	
a declaration to the effect that she is not debarred from holding the office of Director pursuant to any order issued by the SEBI. 
A copy of the draft letter for appointment of Mrs. Sheth as an Independent Director, setting out the terms and conditions of 
appointment, will be available for electronic inspection without any fee, by the Members from the date of circulation of this Notice 
up to the conclusion of remote e-voting i.e. up to 12th August, 2025. Members seeking to inspect such documents can send an e-mail 
to investors@endurance.co.in.
After taking into consideration the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board is of the opinion 
that the extensive knowledge and diverse experience of Mrs. Sheth will be of significant value to the Company. Accordingly, the Board 
recommends the Special Resolution set out at item no. 9 of this Notice, pertaining to her appointment as an Independent Director, 
not liable to retire by rotation, for approval of the Members.
None of the Directors and / or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and / or their relatives, except Mrs. Sheth, are deemed to 
be concerned or interested in the said resolution.
Item No. 10:
Appointment of M/s. J. B. Bhave & Co., Company Secretaries, as Secretarial Auditor of the Company
Pursuant to the amended provisions of Regulation 24A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“Listing Regulations”) as introduced vide SEBI Notification dated 12th December, 2024 and provisions of Section 204 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) and Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
("Rules"), the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company (“Board”) at their respective meetings held on 15th May, 
2025 have approved and recommended the appointment of M/s. J. B. Bhave & Co., Peer Reviewed Company Secretaries in Practice 
(Peer Review Certificate Number - 1238/2021) as the Secretarial Auditor of the Company for a term of five consecutive financial years, 
on following terms and conditions:
a)	
Audit fees: 
	
Professional fees of H 265,000 (Rupees Two Hundred Sixty Five Thousand only) plus applicable taxes and other out-of-pocket 
expenses in connection with the secretarial audit for the financial year 2025-26 and for subsequent financial year(s) of their term, 
at such fee as may be determined by the Board.
	
The proposed fee is based on knowledge, expertise, industry experience, time and efforts required to be put in by them, which 
is in line with the industry benchmark. The fees for services in the nature of certifications and other professional work will be in 
addition to the secretarial audit fee as above and will be determined by the Board in consultation with the Secretarial Auditor 
and as per the recommendations of the Audit Committee.
	
It is recommended that the Board be authorised to decide the remuneration and, alter and vary the terms and conditions 
thereof, arising out of increase in their scope of work on account of amendments to the applicable Secretarial Standards or the 
Listing Regulations or any other regulatory amendment(s). 
b)	
Terms of appointment: 
	
For five consecutive financial year(s) from 1st April, 2025 to 31st March, 2030.
	
The letter of engagement specifying the detailed terms of appointment shall be finalised by the Managing Director and / or the 
Company Secretary of the Company as authorised by the Board. 
c)	
Basis of recommendation for appointment: 
	
The recommendation is based on the fulfilment of the eligibility criteria and qualification prescribed under the Act, the Rules 
and the Listing Regulations, with regard to the Proprietor, Secretarial Audits handled, experience, capability, independent 
assessment and the audit experience.
23 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
d)	
Credentials:
	
M/s. J. B. Bhave & Co., Company Secretaries based in Pune has been established by Mr. Jayavant Bhave, a fellow member of 
the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”). The firm specialises in Secretarial Audit and other corporate law matters. 
It is registered with ICSI and brings over 30 years of experience in delivering, providing wide range of corporate legal services. 
It also holds a valid Peer Review Certificate issued by ICSI.
	
Mr. Bhave, Proprietor of M/s. J. B. Bhave & Co., has given consent to act as the Secretarial Auditor of the Company and 
has confirmed that the proposed appointment would be within the prescribed limits under the ICSI Auditing Standards on 
Secretarial Audit and the Listing Regulations. He has further confirmed that the firm is not disqualified from being appointed as 
the Secretarial Auditor of the Company.
	
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at item no. 10 of the Notice for the approval of the Members.
	
None of the Directors and / or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and / or their relatives are deemed to be concerned 
or interested in the said resolution
By Order of the Board of Directors
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
        Sunil Lalai
	
	
  	
	
	
	
          Company Secretary and 
Date: 15th May, 2025	 	
	 	
	
       Executive Vice President – Legal
Place: Mumbai	 	
	
	 	
       	
	
Membership No. A8078
24  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Route Map of the AGM Venue
25 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
Endurance Technologies Limited 
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296 
Regd. Office: E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, 
Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar – 431 136, Maharashtra, India. 
Phone No.: 0240 2569737 | Fax No.: 0240 2569703
Website: www.endurancegroup.com | E-mail: investors@endurance.co.in
ATTENDANCE SLIP
(To be presented at the entrance)
I / We hereby record my / our presence at the Twenty Sixth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company on Wednesday, 13th 
August, 2025 at 4.00 p.m. at Gateway Aurangabad (formerly Vivanta by Taj), 8-N-12, CIDCO, Dr. Rafiq Zakaria Marg, Rauza Bagh, Chh. 
Sambhajinagar– 431 003, Maharashtra. 
DP ID No.: .................................................................................................................. Client ID No.:................................................................... 
Name of the Member: .........................................................................................................................................................................................
Signature: ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Name of the Proxy holder: ................................................................................................................................................................ 
Signature: ...........................................................................................................
1. 	
Only Member / Proxy holder can attend the AGM. 
2 . 	 Member / Proxy holder should also bring a valid photo identity (i.e. PAN, Voter ID, AADHAR etc.) for identification purpose.
26  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Endurance Technologies Limited 
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296 
Regd. Office: E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, 
Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar – 431 136, Maharashtra, India. 
Phone No.: 0240 2569737 | Fax No.: 0240 2569703
Website: www.endurancegroup.com | E-mail: investors@endurance.co.in
PROXY FORM
[Pursuant to Section 105(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 19(3) of the Companies  
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014]
Name of the Member(s):.......................................................................................................................................................................................
Registered address: .............................................................................................................................................................................................
E-mail ID:............................................................ Client ID No.: ................................................... DP ID No: ....................................................
I / We, being the member(s) of Endurance Technologies Limited holding ................................ equity shares having face value H 10 each, 
hereby appoint:
1.  	 Name:..............................................................................................................E-mail ID: ............................................................................
     	 Address: .......................................................................................................................................................................................................
     	 Signature: ...........................................................................
	
Or failing him / her
2.  	 Name:..............................................................................................................E-mail ID: ............................................................................
     	 Address: .......................................................................................................................................................................................................
     	 Signature: ...........................................................................
	
Or failing him / her
3.  	 Name:..............................................................................................................E-mail ID: ............................................................................
     	 Address: .......................................................................................................................................................................................................
     	 Signature: ...........................................................................
as my / our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me / us and on my / our behalf at the Twenty Sixth Annual General Meeting of the 
Company to be held on Wednesday, 13th August, 2025 at 4.00 p.m. at Gateway Aurangabad (formerly Vivanta by Taj), 8-N-12, CIDCO, 
Dr. Rafiq Zakaria Marg, Rauza Bagh, Chh. Sambhajinagar – 431 003, Maharashtra and at any adjournment thereof in respect of such 
resolutions as are indicated below:
Resolution No.:
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt the audited financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025, 
together with the reports of the Board of Directors and Auditors thereon.
2.	
To receive, consider and adopt the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31st 
March, 2025, together with the report of Auditors thereon.
3.	
To declare dividend on 140,662,848 equity shares of the Company at the rate of H 10 per equity share of face value H 10 each 
(100%) fully paid up, for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025.
27 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
Notice
01-28
4.	
To appoint a director in place of Mr. Satrajit Ray (DIN - 00191467), who retires by rotation in terms of Section 152(6) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
5.	
Ratification of remuneration payable to Mr. Jayant B. Galande, Cost Auditor.
6.	
Re-appointment of Mrs. Varsha Jain (DIN - 08947297) as a Director and Head – CSR and Facility Management.
7.	
Re-appointment of Mr. Anurang Jain (DIN - 00291662) as a Managing Director.
8.	
Re-appointment of Mr. Indrajit Banerjee (DIN - 01365405) as an Independent Director of the Company.
9.	
Appointment of Mrs. Dipali Sheth (DIN - 07556685) as an Independent Director of the Company.
10.	 Appointment of M/s. J. B. Bhave & Co., Company Secretaries, as Secretarial Auditor of the Company.
Signed this ................................................................................ day of ....................................., 2025 
Signature of Member ......................................................
Signature of Proxy holder(s) .................................................
Affix  
Revenue  
Stamp
Notes: 
1. 	
This form of Proxy in order to be effective should be duly completed and deposited at the Registered Office of the 
Company at E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar – 431 136, Maharashtra, not less than 48 hours 
before the commencement of the Meeting.
2. 	
Those Members who have multiple folios with different joint holders may use copies of this Attendance Slip / Proxy form.
28  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
E X P A N D I N G
HORIZONS
E X P A N D I N G
HORIZONS
Contents
At Endurance Technologies  
Limited, growth has never 
been about chasing scale 
for its own sake. It has 
always been guided by our 
commitment to customer 
centricity, consistent delivery 
and a continuous drive to 
push our boundaries.
This year, as we look beyond familiar markets and take confident 
strides into new geographies and explore new technologies, we 
are reminded that real progress happens when we stay true to 
what has always worked for us: trust, deep partnerships and focus 
on quality.
Whether it is our recent acquisitions in Italy and Germany or our 
growing relationships with OEMs across India and Europe, each 
step forward is part of a larger story, one that is rooted in hands-
on learning, in knowing our customers well, and in believing that 
every product we make must serve a real need, reliably.
‘Expanding Horizons’, for us, is a steady, ongoing effort. It 
involves broadening our product portfolio and preparing for 
what lies ahead, without losing sight of who we are. Above all, it 
is about growing with the people who have grown with us - our 
customers, our teams and our partners. It reflects our vision of 
being a complete solutions provider with a global footprint, 
and our mission to be the preferred partner through a focus on 
technology, product reliability, sustainability and safety.
Forward-looking statement
Some information in this report may contain forward-looking statements. We have based these statements on 
our current beliefs, expectations and intentions as to facts, actions and events that will or may occur in the future. 
Such statements generally are identified by futuristic words such as ‘believe’, ‘plan’, ‘anticipate’, ‘continue’, 
‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘may’, ‘will’ or other similar words. These statements may include assumptions or basis 
underlying the futuristic statement. We have chosen these assumptions or basis in good faith, and we believe that 
they are reasonable in all material respects. However, we caution you that these statements and assumed facts or 
basis almost always vary from actual results, and the differences between the results implied by the statements 
and assumed facts or basis and actual results can be material, depending on the circumstances.
Scan the QR 
Code to view the 
report online
02
An integrated mobility partner
06
Engineering excellence across borders
08
Managing Director’s Message
12
Celebrating 40 years of crafting tomorrow
14
Fortifying strengths, delivering more
16
Driving growth through core strengths
18
Our value-accretive offerings
23
What sets us apart
24
Our blueprint for creating value
26
Integrating technology
28
Designed to deliver scale
30
Engaging in constructive dialogue
32
Our Research and Development
37
Empowering our talent pool
42
Powering progress through process
44
Committed to communities
50
Driving a greener tomorrow
57
Governance
58
Board of Directors
59
Awards and recognition
60
Corporate Information
Corporate Overview
62
Management Discussion and Analysis
Statutory Reports
133
Independent Auditor’s Report
142
Balance Sheet
143
Statement of Profit and Loss
144
Statement of Changes in Equity
145
Cash Flow Statement
147
Notes forming part of the Financial Statements
77 
Board’s Report
104 
Corporate Governance Report
Financial Statements
Standalone
Consolidated
199
Independent Auditor’s Report
206
Balance Sheet
207
Statement of Profit and Loss
208
Statement of Changes in Equity
209
Cash Flow Statement
211
Notes forming part of the Financial Statements
272
Form AOC-I
Rear Transmission 
Cover
Disc Brake
An integrated mobility partner
Endurance is a leading automotive component supplier with complete 
capability of design, development and manufacturing, offering a diverse 
range of technology-driven products across its operations in India and 
Europe (Italy and Germany). In India, the Company caters to leading 
OEMs, providing products such as aluminium die-casting, suspension, 
transmission, braking systems, and embedded electronic products. In 
Europe, it manufactures aluminium die-casting components for major 
OEMs. It also has a significant presence in the aftermarket business.
Aluminium  
Die Casting 
Suspension  
Products 
Braking  
Systems 
Transmission 
Embedded 
Electronic 
Products 
Valve Housing
Gas Filled  
Shock Absorber
CV Joint Driveshaft
ABS Modulator 
Inverted-Front- 
Fork Assembly
Assist and Slip Clutch
Battery Management
System
With over thirty years of experience in design, development, and manufacturing, we work 
closely with leading Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) in both domestic and 
international markets. 
Guiding principles 
Our approach is driven by the goal of becoming a trusted 
and preferred supplier to customers. With 33 manufacturing 
facilities strategically located in close proximity to OEMs, the 
focus remains on Quality, Cost, Development, Delivery, and 
Management (QCDDM) to support consistent performance 
and product advancement.
Our focus on quality and customer satisfaction is underpinned 
by robust manufacturing systems and a culture of continuous 
improvement. Every process is aligned to meet customer 
expectations while maintaining high operational standards.
1
2
3
4
5
M
a
n
uf
a
ct
ur
in
g 
D
e
si
g
n
D
ev
el
o
p
Te
st
in
g
Di
st
ri
b
ut
io
n
02  
03 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Our Vision 
Our Mission 
To be a complete solutions provider 
having a global footprint with a 
focus on evolving technologies to 
ensure continuous value creation for 
all our stakeholders while delivering 
societal impact.
To be the preferred partner to all our 
customers with a focus on technology, 
product reliability, sustainability and 
safety through a high-performance 
culture of transparency and ownership.
Integrity
Transparency 
Innovation
Customer 
centricity
Our Values 
We are committed to
Quality
Process
Technology
Our performance in numbers
Financial 
Operational
ESG 
J 116.78 billion
Total Income  
33 
Plants Globally 
39 countries  
Aftermarket presence  
4,370
Permanent Employees 
8%
Diversity ratio
45%
Carbon Neutrality 
J 131.74 million 
CSR spend  
~1.2 million 
Lives impacted 
13.1%
Total Income Growth  
5 DSIR 
Approved
R&D Facilities in India 
2
Tech Centres in Europe 
29 acre
Test-track in India  
J 16.68 billion 
EBITDA 
J 8.36 billion 
PAT
J 276.87 billion 
Market capitalisation 
Team work
05 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
|
Endurance Technologies Limited
04  
Engineering excellence 
across borders
Our R&D centres and manufacturing facilities are strategically positioned 
in close proximity to key OEM locations, enabling faster response times 
and greater alignment with customer needs. This proximity enhances 
our ability to adapt swiftly to evolving requirements and strengthens our 
responsiveness to market shifts. It allows us to not only meet expectations 
but often to exceed them, ensuring a high level of customer satisfaction.
No. of plants
R&D Facilities 
Tech centres 
Massenbachhausen, 
Germany
Laupheim, Germany
Chhatrapati  
Sambhajinagar, Maharashtra 
10
2
Pune,  
Maharashtra 
3
Pantnagar,  
Uttarakhand 
1
4
1
2
Chennai, Tamil Nadu
1
Halol, Gujarat
1
Kolar, Karnataka
1
Sanand, Gujarat
Chhatrapati 
Sambhajinagar, 
Maharashtra
Pune, 
Maharashtra
2
Italy
Grugliasco, Italy
1
Chivasso, Italy
2
Lombardore, Italy
1
Turin, Italy
2
Bione, Italy 
1
Test Track 
1
Chhatrapati  
Sambhajinagar,  
Maharashtra
3
Roverato, Italy
2
07 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
06  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Managing Director’s Message
It is with immense pride and 
gratitude that I present the 
Annual Report for FY 2024-25, 
a year marked by resilience, 
innovation and strategic 
advancements. This year was 
defined not merely by outcomes, 
but by our ability to broaden 
our perspective, respond to 
shifting realities with clarity and 
extend the limits of what we once 
considered possible. In many 
ways, we are expanding horizons 
to engage with a wider, more 
dynamic future.
India continues to shine as one 
of the world’s fastest-growing 
economies, supported by robust 
governmental initiatives and 
prudent monetary policies by the 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The 
industrial production index grew 
by 5.0% in March 2025, signalling a 
strong recovery in manufacturing.
Dear Shareholders,
A Resilient Indian Economy 
and Automotive Sector
India continues to shine as one of the 
world’s fastest-growing economies, 
supported by robust governmental 
initiatives and prudent monetary policies 
by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The 
industrial production index grew by 
5.0% in March 2025, signalling a strong 
recovery in manufacturing. The Union 
Budget’s increased capital expenditure 
and the RBI’s 100-basis-point repo rate 
cut as of June 2025 are expected to 
stimulate consumption and investment 
further, thereby boosting economic 
growth.
The Indian automotive sector 
demonstrated resilience in FY 2024-25. 
According to the Society of Indian 
Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), two-
wheeler sales grew by 11.1% year-on-
year, passenger vehicle sales achieved 
a 3% growth, and three-wheeler sales 
rose by 5.7%. These trends, coupled with 
forecasts of a favourable monsoon, strong 
demand for replacement and government 
support for electric vehicles, indicate the 
sector’s promising outlook.
Numbers that reflect 
expertise and experience
Our financial performance in FY 2024-
25, reflects our expertise in creating 
value for our stakeholders. Standalone 
total income reached I 89.1 billion, 
marking a 12.5% year-on-year growth, 
while consolidated total income stood 
at I 116.8 billion, up 13.1%. Profit After 
Tax (PAT) grew to I 6.79 billion on a 
standalone basis and I 8.36 billion on 
a consolidated basis. Our consolidated 
earnings per share (EPS) more than 
doubled to I 59.46 in FY25 from I 23.48 
in FY17 (our IPO year), indicating our 
sustained growth.
We secured orders worth I 11.99 billion 
in our India business during FY 2024-
25*, with I 10.82 billion arising from 
new business and I 1.17 billion from 
replacement business. Notably, 34% 
of these orders were for four-wheeler 
applications, and 37% were for the 
EV segment. Since FY 2021-22, our 
cumulative EV orders in India have 
reached I 8.35 billion, and surpassed  
I 10 billion with the inclusion of Bajaj 
Auto orders. In Europe, we booked orders 
worth € 40.2 million, including € 5.2 
million machining orders at our Stöferle 
plants.
Built to deliver value
Our initiatives in FY 2024-25 have 
strengthened our presence across 
key segments, laying the groundwork 
for continued progress and gradually 
extending the scope of what we are 
positioned to achieve.
Electric Vehicle (EV) Leadership: We 
are capitalising on the rapidly growing 
EV market with the establishment of a 
technically superior lithium-ion battery 
pack manufacturing plant near Pune, 
announced in April 2025, where we 
are set to commence production in 
January 2026. This modular, automated 
facility shall use our in-house battery 
technology and Maxwell’s expertise in 
Battery Management Systems (BMS). We 
have secured a I 3 billion annual order 
from a leading two-wheeler EV OEM. 
Our product will offer superior thermal 
stability, lifespan and safety with features 
tailored for Indian conditions. End-use 
extends beyond automotive to non-
automotive sectors like telecom, battery 
energy storage systems, and inverters. 
Four-Wheeler Expansion: We signed 
a technical assistance agreement for 
four-wheeler suspension with a leading 
Korean partner and are engaging 
with major passenger car OEMs. We 
are actively pursuing orders for shock 
absorbers and other components, 
with discussions underway for light 
commercial vehicles (LCVs) and medium 
commercial vehicles (MCVs). We are 
taking decisive steps to increase our 
market share to 45% of our consolidated 
turnover by FY 2029-30. Our four-
wheeler order book includes I 4.11 
billion new orders in FY 2024-25, with 
significant EV-related orders, including 
orders from globally renowned OEMs 
for the AURIC Shendra casting plant. 
Our new R&D facility in Waluj, is set to 
be fully operational by June 2025. It will 
enhance our capabilities in two, three 
and four-wheeler suspension systems. 
Similarly, we are expanding our brakes 
R&D centre by including four-wheeler 
testing facilities. We have also begun the 
testing of 4W products at our 29-acre 
test track.
Focus on non-automotive growth: 
Our diversification strategy is gaining 
strong momentum as we leverage 
our engineering and manufacturing 
capabilities to tap into high-growth non-
automotive sectors.
In FY 2024-25, we secured notable non-
automotive orders, including aluminium 
castings for generator applications 
and our first solar damper order from a 
leading Spanish customer. 
Furthermore, our upcoming lithium-ion 
battery pack plant near Pune will cater 
to non-automotive segments such as 
telecom, battery energy storage systems, 
and inverters, with production scheduled 
to commence in January 2026.
The company is positioned as a complete 
solution provider across multiple 
product categories. This presents us 
with significant opportunities for growth 
as we continue offering our existing 
and expanding product and solution 
range to all our customers. The recent 
government notification mandating 
anti-lock braking systems for smaller 
two-wheelers presents a significant 
opportunity for us, strengthening our 
position as a complete solutions provider 
across multiple product categories.
Global Expansion through Acquisitions: 
The Company acquired 60% stake in 
the two Stöferle entities in April 2025. 
Earlier in the year, the Company had 
acquired Ingenia Automation. These 
are strategically important acquisitions, 
with Stöferle coming with a strong track 
record of top line and profit growth 
along with the capability to build its own 
machines and Ingenia bringing in the 
all-important automation capabilities. 
The growth of our European operations 
through acquisition of carefully selected 
*excluding orders from our largest customer, Bajaj Auto.
08  
09 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
companies is resulting in profitable out-
performance against the market.
We accelerated the acquisition of our 
stake in Maxwell Energy, achieving full 
ownership in May 2025. This strategic 
move strengthens our control over 
Maxwell’s innovative BMS technology, 
positioning us to capitalise on the 
growing demand for EV components. 
Our outlook for Maxwell’s business 
remains positive, providing a strong 
foundation for the Company’s continued 
profitable growth.
AURIC Bidkin and Shendra Projects: 
The AURIC Bidkin two-wheeler alloy 
wheel plant, with a capacity of 3.6 
million wheels per annum, is expected 
to commence production in August 
2025, serving multiple OEMs. Our 
four-wheeler casting plant at AURIC 
Shendra, scheduled to start production 
in September 2025, is a green building 
committed to zero waste to landfill. 
Equipped with fully automated die-
casting machines (1,100 to 2,500 tons), it 
has already secured orders worth I 2.75 
billion annually.  
Aftermarket Growth: In FY 2024-25, 
we embarked on a two-year aftermarket 
growth strategy in partnership with 
a global consultancy firm. We have 
revamped our distributor policies, 
introduced new products, and targeted 
new markets to enhance regional market 
share. Our aftermarket exports grew 
by 29%, with value-added products 
contributing over 14% to sales. We are 
on a positive trajectory to achieve our 
target of aftermarket sales accounting 
for 10% of our domestic revenue by FY 
2027-28.
Endurance Vendor Association (EVA): 
I am proud to highlight the pivotal role 
of our Endurance Vendor Association 
(EVA) in driving our success. This 
forum enables efficient issue resolution 
and supports supplier development. 
Each year, we conduct the Endurance 
Vendors’ meet, providing partners 
with a platform to engage on business 
outlook, share feedback, present 
progress, and connect with senior 
leadership. By promoting innovation, 
quality, and efficiency, EVA strengthens 
Employee Well-being and 
Engagement
We believe holistic well-being is the 
driving force of sustained productivity 
and innovation. Building on our work-
life balance efforts launched in 2021, 
we continued to strengthen initiatives 
that support our people. Our Family 
Engagement Initiative invites employees’ 
families to our facilities, fostering 
connection and safety awareness. We 
also launched the Endurance Health 
Benefit Plan in collaboration with a 
leading health-tech platform, offering 
comprehensive healthcare to employees 
and their families. A dedicated 1-to-
1 help hotline continues to support 
employees in navigating personal and 
professional challenges. These initiatives, 
along with actions informed by insights 
from our annual engagement survey, 
have contributed to a measurable 
increase in our Net Promoter Score 
(NPS), reflecting stronger employee 
engagement and loyalty.
by setting ambitious gender diversity 
targets—15% for white-collar and 
10% for blue-collar roles by 2030. 
By embracing varied perspectives, 
addressing bias, and fostering inclusivity, 
we continue to build a culture that 
challenges convention and creates long-
term advantage.
Leadership and Capability 
Development
Developing future-ready leaders 
remains a strategic priority. Through 
our succession planning initiative, we 
identified high-potential talent across 
levels and empowered them with holistic 
assessments, personalised career plans, 
and strategic project assignments under 
senior mentorship. The Endurance 
Youth Leadership Programme (EYLP) 
enabled cross-functional teams to work 
on impactful projects, discover new 
skills, and drive cultural transformation. 
We expanded supervisory development 
at our casting plants and deepened 
partnerships with external experts, 
focusing on technical upskilling, quality 
mindset, and behavioural development 
through Action Learning Projects (ALPs).
Our Managerial Effectiveness programme 
enhanced leadership competencies 
across the organisation, equipping even 
first-time managers with tools to lead 
effectively. Internal trainers played a key 
role in translating learnings into real-
world results—from improved review 
mechanisms to measurable cost savings 
following lean and Shainin trainings.
High-Performance and 
Safety-First Culture
We continue to foster a result-oriented 
culture anchored in internal customer 
centricity, robust review mechanisms, 
and end-to-end accountability. Instant 
recognition celebrates achievements 
reinforcing our focus on innovation and 
performance.
Safety and sustainability remain 
foundational to our culture. Our 
Management of Change initiative 
mandates EHS certification for all 
major projects. We rotate daily safety 
champions across plants, conduct 
contractor safety programmes, and 
enforce a zero-tolerance policy for 
unsafe acts through a clearly defined 
consequence management framework. 
We also actively benchmark and  
share best practices across locations  
to drive continuous improvement in  
EHS performance.
In conclusion
Expanding our horizons demands 
strategic endeavours, refined policies 
and razor-sharp focus on excellence. 
Our commitment to excellence has 
been recognised through prestigious 
accolades, including the CII Intellectual 
Property Award 2024, Platinum and 
Gold quality awards from Bajaj Auto for 
our two brake plants and the Mahindra 
Innovation Award in February 2025. We 
were also recognised with the DET Hurun 
India Manufacturing Excellence Award 
and ranked 32nd among Fortune India 
magazine’s Future-ready workplaces, 
reflecting our progress in advanced 
manufacturing practices and product 
innovation.
As we conclude FY 2024-25, I am filled 
with optimism for the future of  Endurance 
Technologies. We are growing from 
strength to strength, synergising our 
core competencies and challenging the 
status quo. Our strategic acquisitions, 
expansion projects and focus on EVs 
and four-wheeler segments position us 
as a leader in the automotive industry. 
Our commitment towards sustainability, 
innovation and employee well-being 
ensures that we build a legacy that stands 
the test of time.
Thank you, dear shareholders, for your 
continued trust and support. Together, 
we will build a future that is prosperous, 
sustainable and inclusive.
Regards,
Anurang Jain 
Managing Director
our ecosystem, ensuring we remain a 
preferred tier-1 supplier for OEMs. 
Endurance Proving Ground: We are the 
first tier-1 supplier in India to establish 
a state-of-the-art test track (Endurance 
Proving Ground) for direct on-vehicle 
product testing. Spread across 29 acre, 
the Endurance Proving Ground features 
diverse track surfaces to evaluate 
suspension, transmission and braking 
systems. Managed from a central 
operations hub with workshops and rider 
facilities, EPG is supported by certified 
test riders trained by global experts, 
enabling comprehensive performance 
assessment under controlled and varied 
real-world conditions. 
Commitment to 
Sustainability and 
Community
Sustainability and social responsibility 
are at the core of our operations. We 
achieved 45% carbon neutrality in FY 
2024-25, with a target to exceed 50% 
by FY 2029-30, aligned with the Science 
Based Targets initiative (SBTi) guidelines. 
We also enhanced our renewable 
power share from 23% in FY 2023-24 
to 25.2% in FY 2024-25 through higher 
utilisation of solar and wind energy 
sources. We reduced specific electrical, 
thermal energy, and water consumption, 
achieving 96% recycling rates for water 
and hazardous waste. Six of our plants 
earned platinum ratings in third-party 
zero waste to landfill assessments.
Through our CSR arm, Sevak Trust, 
we impacted over 22,000 lives in FY 
2024-25. We transformed three schools 
with solar energy and hygiene-focused 
facilities, trained 900 adolescent girls in 
health and skills, and empowered more 
than 1,000 farmers through sustainable 
agriculture programmes. Our ECoVE 
Vocational Training Centre in Chhatrapati 
Sambhajinagar trained more than 200 
youth, securing over 74% employment. 
Our health programmes have benefitted 
4,850 villagers, and we built 32 toilets to 
improve sanitation.
Our Vet Van programme treated 8,050 
animals across 47 villages. We also 
initiated a green energy village project, 
providing rooftop solar coverage to 
100% of households in one village. 
Additionally, we have developed 
dense forests across 22.5 acre in three 
villages, planting over 2,20,000 native 
saplings from 63 species. These efforts 
support biodiversity regeneration and 
contribute to measurable benefits such 
as reduced temperatures and longer 
monsoon spells.
Gratitude Towards 
Employees
At the heart of Endurance Technologies’ 
success are our Endurians, whose 
dedication and passion drive us forward. 
We continue to build a high-performance 
culture that propels us forward and 
reinforces global trust.
Vendor partners being felicitated for their long term capability development at the Endurance 
Vendor Meet in Feb’25
Diversity as a Strategic 
Priority
We see diversity as a driver of innovation 
and sustainable growth. In FY 2024-25, 
we celebrated the milestone of a 100+ 
women employees in the white-collar 
workforce, reaffirming our commitment 
Addressing employees at the bi-annual MD 
Communication
10  
11 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Celebrating 40 years of 
crafting tomorrow
Approaching four decades of operations, the journey that began in 1985 
with just two aluminium die-casting machines, has grown into a robust 
and diversified manufacturing network. With 33 strategically located 
manufacturing facilities, we now serve key automotive verticals die-
casting, suspension, braking, transmission, embedded electronics and 
aluminium forging while staying closely connected to our OEM partners 
across geographies.
1985
1996
1998
1999
2001
2002
2004
2007
2008
2009
2010
2019
2020
2011
2018
2021
2012
2016
2022
2013
2015
2023
2024
2025
2005
2006
 
Ê
Entered into aluminium 
die casting business
 
Ê
Entered into two-wheeler 
suspension business
 
Ê
Entered into two and 
three-wheeler transmission 
business 
 
Ê
Entered into collaboration 
with Paioli Mechanica for 
front forks
 
Ê
Entered into collaboration 
with Paioli SpA for shock 
absorbers
 
Ê
Entered into aftermarket 
business
 
Ê
Set up suspension 
plants at Chhatrapati 
Sambhajinagar 
(Maharashtra)
 
Ê
Expanded aftermarket 
presence to Sri Lanka 
 
Ê
Entered into 
collaboration with Adler 
for transmission
 
Ê
Set up casting and 
transmission plants 
at Chhatrapati 
Sambhajinagar 
(Maharashtra)
 
Ê
Entered into two-wheeler 
disc brakes business, 
collaboration with 
Grimeca
 
Ê
Acquired Fondalmec in 
Italy 
 
Ê
Set up R&D facility for 
braking & transmission 
in Chhatrapati  
Sambhajinagar 
(Maharashtra). Set up a 
casting & machining plant 
in Pune, (Maharashtra)
 
Ê
Set up new plants in 
Chennai (Tamil Nadu)
 
Ê
Set up plant in Pantnagar 
(Uttarakhand) for 
casting, suspension and 
transmission
 
Ê
Expanded aftermarket 
presence in Egypt (Africa) 
and Guatemala (North 
America)
 
Ê
Setup R&D facility for 
casting, collaboration with 
KTM for inverted front 
forks, mono-shox
 
Ê
Expanded aftermarket 
presence to Nepal (Asia), 
Columbia and Peru (South 
America)
 
Ê
Expanded aftermarket 
presence to Dubai (UAE) 
and Ecuador (South 
America)
 
Ê
Set up new suspension 
plant in Kolar, Karnataka, 
India 
 
Ê
Acquired 99% stake in 
Italian clutch manufacturer 
Adler SpA
 
Ê
Expanded aftermarket 
presence to Indonesia 
(Asia) and El Salvador 
Honduras, Mexico (North 
America) 
 
Ê
Set up of the test 
track- Endurance 
Ground in Chhatrapati 
Sambhajinagar 
(Maharashtra)Set up new 
suspension plant in Halol, 
Gujarat, India 
 
Ê
Set up a casting plant at 
Vallam,Tamil Nadu, India 
 
Ê
Acquired 100% stake in 
Veicoli Srl, Italy 
 
Ê
Expanded aftermarket 
presence to Kenya (Africa) 
 
Ê
Set up new casting plant 
in Sanand, Gujarat, India 
 
Ê
Set up brakes 
manufacturing at a 
pre-existing facility in 
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar 
(Maharashtra)
 
Ê
Acquisition of Maxwell, 
India and Frenotecnica Srl 
and New Fren Srl in Italy
 
Ê
Set up of a machining 
plant in Chhatrapati  
Sambhajinagar 
(Maharashtra) 
 
Ê
Expanded aftermarket 
presence to Nicaragua 
 
Ê
Extended aftermarket 
presence to Philippines 
(Asia) 
 
Ê
Set up Electronics Surface 
Mount Technology 
(SMT) line in Chhatrapati 
Sambhajinagar 
(Maharashtra)  
 
Ê
Acquired 100% stake in 
Ingenia Automation Srl, 
Italy 
 
Ê
Setting up of AURIC 
Shendra project in 
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar 
(Maharashtra), focused on 
machined castings for 4W 
and non-automotive
 
Ê
Setting up of AURIC Bidkin 
2W alloy wheel project in 
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar 
(Maharashtra)
 
Ê
New R&D centre 
for 2W, 3W and 4W 
suspensions in Waluj, 
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar 
 
Ê
Set up R&D facility for 
suspension, Chhatrapati 
Sambhajinagar 
(Maharashtra)
 
Ê
Expanded aftermarket 
presence to Bangladesh
 
Ê
Acquired Amann 
Druckguss in Germany 
 
Ê
Set up casting plant in 
Pune (Maharashtra). 
Collaboration with 
Zhejiang Wanfeng for alloy 
wheels
 
Ê
Started production of 
driveshaft from a new 
facility in Chhatrapati 
Sambhajinagar 
(Maharashtra)
(Maharashtra)
Announcement to set up 
lithium-ion battery pack 
plant in Pune (Maharashtra)
 
Ê
Acquisition of Stöferle 
Automotive GmbH and 
Stöferle GmbH in Germany 
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
13 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
12  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Fortifying strengths, delivering more
65,777
10,709
16.3
75,902
10,057
13.2
88,495
10,817
12.2
1,03,265
1,16,778
Total Income
13.1%
YoY Growth
18.0%
YoY Growth
22.9%
YoY Growth
PAT
EBITDA
PAT Margin 
EBITDA Margin 
(in H million)
(in H million)
(in H million)
(in %)
(in %)
14,136
13.7
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2025
16.9
36.95
14.6
32.75
14.2
34.09
Net Debt Equity 
Ratio 
Return on Average 
Capital Employed
EPS
(in times)
(in %)
Total Income from  
European Business
(in H million)
(in H)
ROE
(%)
17.6
18.2
48.38
59.46
16,681
14.3
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2025
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2025
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2025
(0.1)
(0.1)
(0.1)
(0.1)
(0.2)
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2025
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2025
5,196
4,607
4,796
6,805
8,364
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2025
7.9
6.1
5.4
6.6
7.2
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2025
15.8
12.3
11.5
14.5
15.6
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2025
17,937
18,852
20,533
23,630
27,576
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2025
* Consolidated
* Consolidated
14  
15 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Driving growth through  
core strengths
The automotive landscape is undergoing rapid transformation, driven 
by evolving mobility needs, regulatory shifts, and the growing emphasis 
on cleaner technologies. Building on our strong capabilities across die-
casting, suspension, braking and transmission systems, we are steadily 
expanding into emerging areas such as aluminium forging and EV-
oriented and 4W segment and its components.
Our focus remains on enhancing product efficiency, reducing environmental impact and aligning with the next phase of mobility. 
As we scale our technological and manufacturing strengths, we aim to support the industry’s transition while ensuring operational 
and financial resilience.
Our strengths 
Committed to deliver 
shareholder value 
Winning  
business model 
High performance 
culture 
Profitable 
growth 
Corporate 
governance 
Our core 
strengths 
Technology leader 
Profitable growth 
Committed to deliver shareholder value 
Winning business model
High performance culture 
Technology leader  
Corporate governance   
What it means to us 
Driving growth through scalability, customer 
alignment and smart cost structures while 
maintaining a strong bottom-line focus.
What it means to us 
Aligning operational excellence with financial 
prudence to generate long-term value for investors 
through consistent returns and efficient capital 
utilisation.
What it means to us 
Building on an integrated product ecosystem 
that leverages customer proximity, multi-vertical 
strength and agile manufacturing setups.
What it means to us 
Cultivating an environment that encourages 
accountability, innovation and collaborative 
progress across all teams.
What it means to us 
Advancing engineering capabilities with sustained 
investments in R&D, digitalisation and emerging 
mobility technologies.
What it means to us 
Incorporating transparency, ethical business 
conduct and board-level oversight into decision-
making.
Highlights 
Highlights 
Highlights 
Highlights 
Highlights 
Highlights 
H 116.78 billion 
H 8.36 billion 
H 11.9 billion*
Enhanced productivity and cross-
functional alignment across 33 
manufacturing facilities
€ 40.2 million 
H 861.96 million 
Total income up 13.1 % YoY
PAT, 22.9 % YoY growth
New orders from Indian market 
New orders secured in Europe
*excluding orders from Bajaj Auto
Invested in R&D, including EV 
components and lightweight 
design innovations
Among top 250 companies by 
market cap, along with strong 
Board oversight and disclosures
16  
17 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Our value-accretive offerings
Aluminium Die casting
Transmission
Braking Systems
Suspension
Clutch 
Integrated face cover
Dual channel ABS Modulator 
Cargo vehicle clutch 
EV Mission case
Disc brake Assembly
ADF
Inverted Front Fork 
Assembly 
Crankshaft mounted clutch 
Swing arm
Drum Brake 
Solid axle driveshaft 
Generac crank case
Single Channel ABS Modulator
Cargo rear
Mono Gas filled Shock 
absorber
Clutch 
Crank case 
2W Disc 
CV joint driveshaft
Transmission housing
Hydraulic Drum Brake Assembly
Cargo front
Mono Shock Absorber 
(Twin tube)
Front Fork Assembly 
(with protection cover)
Mono Shock Absorber 
(mono tube) 
Gas filled  
Shock absorber
Spring in Spring Shock 
Absorber
18  
19 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Aftermarket
2-Wheeler 
Cam shaft
Clutch Spares 
Wheel Rims
Steering Bearing kit 
Front Disc Brake Assembly
2W and 3W Tyres 
CVT parts
Inverted Front Fork Assembly
Brake shoe 
Silencer
 Automotive Filters
Mono Shock Absorber
Clutch assembly  
2W Brake Disc
Dual Channel ABS Modulator
2W Inverted Front Fork 
Assembly (Cartridge Type)
Alloy wheel 2W EV 
2W Rear Mono Shock 
Absorber  
(Adjustable Damping)
Mono Tube Shock Absorber 
with Floating Piston
2W Clutch 
2W Front Fork Assy (with 
Protection Cover)
2W Magneto Cover
2W Alloy Wheel
Aftermarket
Cam shaft
Clutch Spares 
Wheel Rims
Steering Bearing kit 
Front Disc Brake Assembly
2W and 3W Tyres 
Shock Absorber Rear
Shock Absorber Rear
Control Cables
CVT parts
Inverted Front Fork Assembly
Brake shoe 
Lock Sets
Engine Oil
Horns
 Automotive Filters
Mono Shock Absorber
Clutch assembly  
3-Wheeler 
Tandem Master Assembly
3W Clutch Assembly
3W Cylinder Head
3W Suspension
Driveshaft
20  
21 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
What sets us apart
Core competencies 
We have built a robust, future-ready platform through our integrated capabilities, enabling us to serve the evolving needs of 
global and domestic OEMs across mobility segments. We are deeply rooted in a value-driven approach and focus on achieving 
sustained performance across all verticals.
Technology Leader
Marquee Clientele
Complete  
solutions provider
Manufacturing capabilities 
to ensure quality
We prioritise investments in advanced 
engineering, digital tools and R&D to 
stay ahead of industry shifts, across our 
traditional products as well as emerging 
technology products.
Focus on aftermarket
A focused approach to the aftermarket 
enables us to diversify our presence, 
enhance brand visibility and respond to 
evolving customer preferences beyond 
OEM networks.
Financial Strength
A disciplined approach to financial 
management allows us to balance 
growth initiatives with long-term 
resilience. Our consistent performance 
provides a stable foundation for future 
investments.
Our partnerships with leading domestic 
and global OEMs reflect a proven 
track record of quality, timeliness and 
the ability to co-develop solutions 
that support next-generation vehicle 
platforms.
Strong Vendor Base 
We are the only Company 
to establish the Endurance 
Vendor Association (EVA), a 
collaborative platform that 
strengthens plant-vendor 
engagement, enabling 
improved efficiency, 
communication, and cost 
optimisation across the  
value chain.
From concept to production, 
we offer comprehensive 
solutions across key product 
segments including die-
casting, suspension, braking, 
transmission, electronics, and 
aluminium forging-ensuring 
seamless collaboration with 
OEM partners.
A strong network of 
manufacturing facilities, 
supported by automation 
and quality systems, enables 
precision, scalability and 
consistency across diverse  
product lines.
Endurance Proving Ground at Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar
4-Wheeler
Passenger Vehicle Torque 
Converter Housing
CV Joint Driveshaft
Passenger Vehicle Engine 
Mounting Bracket
22  
23 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Our blueprint for creating value
Inputs 
Processes 
Outputs
SDG’s 
Financial Capital*
Total equity: H 57.17 billion
Debt to equity:  -0.15
*consolidated
*consolidated #standalone  
Total income Y-o-Y growth*: 13.1%
EBITDA Y-o-Y growth*: 18%
PAT Y-o-Y growth*: 22.9%
Ratings#: ICRA AA+ (long term);  
A1+ (short term)
Manufacturing Capital 
Manufacturing plants in India: 19
Manufacturing plants in Europe: 14
Orders won:
In India: H 11.9 billion* 
In Europe: € 40.2 million
Intellectual Capital 
R&D spend: H 861.96 million  
R&D head count: 270
R&D facilities in India: 5
Test track in India : 1
Technology centres in Europe: 2
Patents granted: 16
Design registrations: 26
Human Capital 
Employee strength: 4,370
Total hours spent on training: 54,245
Diversity ratio: 8% (white collar)
Social and Relationship Capital
Investment in: CSR H 131.74 million
Board time spent on CSR: ~34 hours
Beneficiaries: 22,000
No of lives reached through 
quality healthcare: 7,524 
Natural Capital
Electrical energy consumption reduction: 30% 
Renewable energy usage: 25% 
Waste Water Recovery: 96%
Carbon neutrality: 45% 
Water footprint reduction: 17.63%
Waste recycling rate: 96% 
Trees planted: 2,20,000
Supplier  
code of conduct 
Digital  
supplier portal
Local vendor 
development 
Sustainable  
sourcing policies 
Light-weighting  
and recycling 
Supply Chain 
Consumer initiatives 
Newly launched products
Supplier initiatives 
Transporters
Dealer portal
Courier
Sustainability 
programmes
Distribution  
channels 
Distribution  
channels 
Advance mobility solutions
Aluminium  
die casting
2 Wheeler    3 Wheeler     4 Wheeler
Aftermarket Business
Established markets  
(Europe,USA,India) 
Growth markets  
(Africa, India, LATAM)
Suspension 
Transmission 
Braking systems
Aftermarket 
Embedded  
Electronics 
Innovation 
Leadership
Balanced 
revenue 
Above 
benchmark 
EBIDTA 
Strong Gender 
and diversity 
Goals 
*excluding orders from Bajaj Auto
 Dual Channel ABS 
Modulator
Four-wheeler Driveshaft
24  
25 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Integrating technology 
We are advancing digital transformation by integrating information 
technology across all facets of our ecosystem, including corporate 
functions, manufacturing sites, supplier networks, customer interfaces, 
workforce management, and regulatory interactions. 
Significant investments have been made to strengthen digital capabilities, automate key operations and enable smart 
manufacturing practices. Our IT infrastructure is built on a centralised, cohesive architecture, marked by the successful 
upgrade to SAP S/4HANA ERP platform, enhancement in IIoT (Industrial Internet of Things).
Enhanced digital landscape
Various systems such as ERP, IIoT (Industrial Internet of 
Things), Business Analytics/Intelligence platforms, Bio-
Metric enabled Time Office system, Payroll, HRMS (Human 
Resource Management System), CRM (Customer Relationship 
Management), DMS (Dealer Management System), SRM 
Enhanced Visibility
Improved efficiency
Data driven decision making
 
Ê
Holistic view of operations
 
Ê
Real-time data visibility from 
shop floor to top floor
 
Ê
Business process automation
 
Ê
Efficient resource utilisation 
 
Ê
Error proofing
 
Ê
Real time data analysis 
 
Ê
Predictive analysis
(Supplier Relationship Management) with supplier portal, 
Intranet/Employees Portals and government platforms such 
as GSTN are seamlessly integrated across the organisation. 
These systems are accessed and utilised by different user 
groups, ranging from plant personnel and supply chain teams to 
finance, sales, and HR functions, depending on their roles and 
responsibilities.
Security and risk management 
A secure digital ecosystem is fundamental to ensuring business continuity, stakeholder trust and compliance in an increasingly 
connected environment. To safeguard our infrastructure and operations, we have adopted a multi-layered approach to security and risk 
management, aligning with global best practices and adoption of ISO27001:2022 guidelines, including certification.
Ensuring sustainability through IT 
Information Technology (IT) is emerging as a powerful enabler in achieving organisational sustainability goals. From enhancing 
resource efficiency to reducing carbon emissions, IT is playing a pivotal role in fostering environmentally responsible practices. 
Outlined below are the key areas where IT makes a significant contribution to sustainability.
Resource Optimisation
Carbon Neutrality
Data analytics, cloud computing, virtualisation, 
and continuous enhancement in digitalisation 
are helping organisations manage resources 
more efficiently, reduce infrastructure needs, and 
minimise energy consumption.
IT supports renewable energy integration, 
promotes energy-efficient and sustainable 
hardware to lower emissions and e-waste.
Quality check on transmission housing at the Endurance SpA plant, Italy
Risk Assessment and 
Management
Cybersecurity 
Governance
Inventory Management 
and Asset visibility
Network Segmentation 
and Isolation
Access and Identity 
Management
Incident Response and 
Disaster Recovery
Security Awareness 
and Training
Monitoring and Vulnerability 
Management
Regulatory 
Compliance
Data Security
Security and risk 
management 
26  
27 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Designed to deliver scale
With a network of strategically located facilities in India and Europe, 
our manufacturing ecosystem is designed to deliver scale, agility, and 
proximity to OEMs. The geographic expansion of our facilities not only 
supports increasing demand across mobility platforms - including EVs, but 
also strengthens our ability to respond swiftly to customer requirements 
across markets.
Our Indian operations serve as the pillar for volume manufacturing and component diversity, while our European 
facilities focus on high-precision engineering and advanced casting systems. Seamless collaboration across locations 
ensures consistent quality, optimised cost structures, and competitive lead times.
No of plants 
19
9
5
Key Focus Areas
Highlights 
 
Ê
Aluminium die-casting
 
Ê
Suspension systems 
 
Ê
Braking systems
 
Ê
Transmission components 
 
Ê
Embedded Electronics
 
Ê
High pressure die casting
 
Ê
Braking technology
 
Ê
Transmission and cam carriers
 
Ê
Improved automation process  
 
Ê
Plastic moulding
 
Ê
Aluminium casting for premium 
OEMs
 
Ê
In-house Machine building 
 
Ê
Automation expertise 
 
Ê
Operationalised inverted front fork 
line for EV 2Ws
 
Ê
Expanded IOT-linked production 
in Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar 
 
Ê
Enhanced capacity for brake and 
clutch systems
 
Ê
Increased production for EV 4W 
braking systems 
 
Ê
Integrated new tooling for 
gearbox housing 
 
Ê
100%  acquisition of Ingenia 
Automation Srl, Italy
 
Ê
New capacity added for niche 
engine parts
 
Ê
Enhanced automation in machining 
lines
 
Ê
Acquisition of Stöferle GmbH and 
Stöferle Automotive GmbH in April 
2025
 
Ê
Access to larger OEM customer base 
giving up to € 80 million in sales 
India 
Italy
Germany
End-to-end solutions provider 
Design
Testing and 
validation 
Manufacture 
Service
Develop
Deliver 
Focus on developing innovative, 
lean, and cost competitive designs to 
maintain a technological edge across 
the product range.
Facilities (including Endurance Proving 
Ground) for material, component, 
product, and vehicle-level testing
Manufacture a wide range of 
products serving the diverse 
requirements of customers
Provide end-to-end services from conception 
to end-user delivery  Aftermarket sale for 
a wide range of technology intensive auto 
component products 
Structured product 
development to 
get ‘first time right’ 
products.
Manufacturing 
facilities in proximity 
to customers, 
to ensure timely 
delivery.
28  
29 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Engaging in constructive dialogue
Stakeholder engagement at Endurance Technologies is built on open 
dialogue, mutual trust, and shared purpose. We collaborate with our OEM 
customers, suppliers, investors, and communities to understand their 
needs, align on goals and co-create solutions. 
Our stakeholder engagement is guided by consistency, transparency 
and responsiveness. By maintaining transparent communication, 
honouring commitments, and continuously seeking input, we strengthen 
relationships that drive innovation, operational excellence, and 
sustainable growth for all.  As our operations evolve, we continue to 
strengthen these relationships with the intent of delivering durable value 
and shared progress.
Stakeholder Engagement Procedure 
Government  
bodies 
Investors  
and lenders 
Help strengthen our 
operations through the 
adoption of efficient, cost-
effective, and sustainable 
practices.
 
Ê
Annual General 
Meetings
 
Ê
Press Releases
 
Ê
Annual Reports
 
Ê
News channels
 
Ê
Website updates
 
Ê
Conference calls
 
Ê
Email 
 
Ê
Website 
 
Ê
Meetings 
We prioritise strong 
engagement with 
regulatory authorities and 
ensure full compliance 
with applicable laws and 
standards as part of our 
ethical business approach.
Frequency 
Why
we engage
How
we engage
of engagement
Quarterly and  
need based 
Quarterly and annually,  
as needed
Regulators
Customers
Employees  
and workers
Communities 
Serving our customers 
not only strengthens 
brand value and 
drives revenue but 
also helps in gaining 
valuable feedback that 
shapes innovation and 
operational improvement.
 
Ê
E-mails
 
Ê
Feedback mechanism
 
Ê
Online surveys
 
Ê
Testing and refinement 
programmes
 
Ê
Reports
 
Ê
E-mail 
communications
 
Ê
Letters
 
Ê
Town Hall meetings 
 
Ê
Grievance mechanism
 
Ê
Rewards and Recognition
 
Ê
Cultural events
 
Ê
Trainings and workshops
 
Ê
Newsletters
 
Ê
Community 
development 
programmes
 
Ê
Collaborations
Support us in 
maintaining compliance 
and ensuring business 
continuity through 
adherence to local 
laws and regulatory 
requirements.
Our people are the 
foundation of our success, 
playing a vital role in driving 
growth and performance.
Help build strong 
relationships with people 
and support social and 
economic growth.
Frequent and  
need-based
As and  
when required
As and when required
As and  
when required
30  
31 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Our Research and Development 
By deepening our focus on innovation and knowledge-based approaches, 
we have continued to strengthen our intellectual capital. 
This progress has supported the development of intellectual property, encouraged a culture of continuous learning, and 
enhanced our technological capabilities. Strategic investments in R&D across product lines, along with collaborations with 
academic institutions, industry partners and research bodies, have enabled us to stay ahead of evolving customer needs.
Safeguarding Intellectual Property rights 
We continued to strengthen our intellectual property (IP) ecosystem, marking a year of strategic filings and broader 
participation across functions. With a focus on meaningful innovation, we have supported the core verticals die-casting, 
suspension, braking systems, and transmission while building IP capabilities that reinforce long-term competitiveness.
28 new patent applications were 
filed, with coverage across key 
verticals
Received CII Industrial IP 
Awards, 2024 for the Best CAGR 
for Granted Patents under the 
Large Manufacturing Company 
category, affirming the growing 
maturity of its IP practices
Received grant of 16 patents, 
reflecting robust follow-through 
across R&D units
Received ASSOCHAM’s IP 
Excellence Award 2024 for the 
Best IP Portfolio in the category 
of the Large Enterprises
Majority of these patents were 
granted without requiring 
a hearing, highlighting the 
precision in drafting and strength 
of compliance
All DSIR-approved R&D centres 
of the Company currently hold 
granted patents, with each centre 
featuring female inventors who 
have filed patents—prominently 
reflecting diversity in innovation
Registered 30 new designs and 
received 26 grants during the 
year, both representing annual 
highs
The Company’s IPR Head co-
opted into CII National IP 
Committee (2024 & 2025) 
–Strengthening participation in 
national IP policy forums and 
promoting internal capability 
development
The Company’s IPR Head was 
recognised as the Top IP Leader in 
an International IP Conference on 
‘Future of IP in the Age of Artificial 
Intelligence’ held in Singapore 
Highlights from FY 2024-25 
Measures to strengthen competitive advantage through IP:
 
Ê
Regular infringement checks and scope enhancement to prevent replication  
and circumvention
 
Ê
Monthly monitoring of competitor patent publications
 
Ê
Proactive engagement across R&D functions to uncover and secure novel ideas.
These combined efforts reflect 
our evolution into an IP-conscious 
organisation that views intellectual 
property not only as a compliance need 
but as a strategic business enabler.
Aluminium Die Casting and Machining
We continue to strengthen our aluminium die casting and machining capabilities, focusing on developing lightweight, high-
strength components for evolving powertrain architectures. With growing demand for complex geometries and cleaner finishes 
across ICE and EV platforms, the R&D team focused on enhancing tooling design, improving process reliability and adopting 
digital simulations to accelerate development cycles.
We have undertaken 27 projects 
for automation, helping to 
enhance operational efficiency.
Recognised by M&M for the 
best innovation for light weight 
tractor part. 
We developed structural 
aluminium die casting components 
for domestic and export  
EV markets
Special alloy parts with higher 
mechanical properties were 
developed for EV applications
Recognised by the GDC Tech 
Forum for best casting in a Swing 
Arm project
Highlights from FY 2024-25 
Our casting operations supported 123 new product 
developments this year, enabled by tools such as Magma, 
Unigraphics and PLM. Key gains included die-coat savings 
across six machines, four multi-cavity dies and automation 
of five machines. We received the Mahindra award for 
innovation for redesigning the hydraulic lifter used behind the 
tractor. Originally manufactured from cast iron and weighing 
approximately 30 kg, the component was re-engineered 
with aluminium to weigh just 10.5 kg, resulting in substantial 
resource savings.
We are focused on scaling automation, reducing alloy 
variety and expanding spray optimisation to more than 
60 machines, alongside enhancing thermal management 
of dies and part traceability. Our efforts are directed 
towards meeting the high mechanical property 
requirements of aluminium castings. Through the 
integration of PFMEA and APQP software, we aim to cut 
cycle times, streamline tooling and support programme 
efficiency in the upcoming years. 
Innovation 
Future
Spotlight
Preparedness
Washing operation on transmission housing line at Stöferle plant, Germany
32  
33 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Suspension
Suspension R&D is centred around delivering superior ride 
comfort, stability and durability across diverse terrain and 
mobility platforms. We focused on enhancing damping 
technology, integrating lightweight materials and aligning 
development efforts with the global shift towards electric 
mobility. Advanced testing protocols and co-development 
remained critical to driving outcomes.
We signed a technical assistance agreement with a 
Korean entity to manufacture suspensions and struts 
for 4-Wheeler
Product improvements targeted enhanced ride 
dynamics, reduced noise and improved consistency, 
aligned with evolving ICE and EV requirements
A new suspension R&D Centre, four times larger than 
the existing testing facility, dedicated to two-wheeler, 
three-wheeler, four-wheeler and non-automotive 
suspension products. It houses next-generation 
test equipment, advanced workspaces, innovation 
cell, vehicle dynamics labs, virtual simulation labs, 
advanced proto cell and reliability evaluation labs
Implemented a design automation tool which helped 
reduce design time from two weeks to two days with 
a first-time-right and standardised approach
Highlights from FY 2024-25 
With 41 granted patents and 44 under evaluation, innovation 
remains central to product development. The Endurance 
Proving Ground, co-located with R&D and manufacturing, 
enables real-time testing and faster iteration.
We are focused on entering the four-wheeler segment 
while expanding our aftermarket presence in light 
commercial vehicles. Key future priorities include 
patented e-assisted suspensions, advanced air suspension 
systems, and technologies aligned with EV requirements, 
such as noise-reduction designs and optimised vehicle 
dynamics. With a larger R&D facility underway, we plan to 
scale engineering capacity. These efforts reflect a future-
ready roadmap built around customer needs, regulatory 
shifts and technological evolution.
Innovation 
Future
Spotlight
Preparedness
Braking systems 
We continue to drive safety, precision 
and performance across two-wheeler and 
three-wheeler platforms. With a robust 
infrastructure that includes in-house 
dynamometers and advanced validation 
capabilities, we remain focused on 
delivering cutting-edge braking solutions, 
including ABS technologies. The segment 
has strengthened its stature as an 
integrated solutions provider, aligning 
closely with OEM requirements and 
global standards.
Introduction of brake system for children’s bikes
Commercialisation of cost-effective CBS variants 
for leading OEMs
Developed cost-effective disc brake systems for 
electric vehicles
Continued strategic collaborations with key OEMs, 
supporting innovation and product deployment
Highlights from FY 2024-25
We follow a structured APQP-driven development process, 
from RFQ to full-scale production. In-house design, testing 
and validation ensure speed and precision. We also use 
advanced tools such as fourth-axis machining and sensors for 
lean manufacturing and assembly accuracy. All designs align 
with Japanese Automobile Standards. With a strong patent 
approval rate, our innovation pipeline remains robust.
We are enhancing in-house capabilities through the 
‘Things Gone Right or Things Gone Wrong’ (TGRTGW) 
approach and the Design Approval Process (DAP) 
methodologies, reducing lead times and ensuring 
design reliability. Investments in automated testing, 
process integration, and lean operations position us 
to support next-gen mobility platforms with precision-
engineered, globally compliant braking solutions.
Innovation 
Future
Spotlight
Preparedness
Final inspection of mono-shock assembly, Chh Sambhajinagar
Circlip fitment at the disc-brake plant
34  
35 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Transmission 
Our focus in the transmission systems 
vertical remains on delivering efficient 
power transfer, reduced NVH (Noise, 
Vibration & Harshness), and improved 
durability across commuter and 
performance motorcycles. Through 
collaborations with global partners and 
internal design enhancements, we continue 
to strengthen our position in the premium 
motorcycle segment.
Received approval for APTC EVO clutches for  
150cc–400cc motorcycles; SOP planned for FY 2025-26.
Implemented advanced software tools and PLM 
systems to improve design efficiency.
Received new RFQs from Indian and global OEMs 
based on positive product feedback.
Developed a unique assist-and-slip clutch that 
delivers optimal performance with high durability and 
lower cost.
Highlights from FY 2024-25 
By leveraging Adler’s core IP and tailoring it to suit local 
markets, we developed enhanced assist-and-slip clutch 
systems that balance performance, cost, and manufacturing 
ease. These improvements support our competitive position 
in the 200cc+ premium motorcycle segment.
We are exploring modular product platforms and 
integrated solutions to cater to diverse customer 
needs, while maintaining development efficiency 
through digital design environments and structured 
product lifecycle management.
Innovation 
Future
Spotlight
Preparedness
Empowering our talent pool
4
Our people are our greatest asset, and we strive to provide them with 
a conducive workplace where professional growth and personal well-
being go hand-in-hand. Through targeted training programmes, regular 
engagement activities, and a strong emphasis on safety, we have 
cultivated a culture where everyone feels empowered to contribute 
their best. By investing in our people’s progress and health, we are 
strengthening careers and driving our collective success.
4-C Strategic 
pillars in the 
human resource 
management 
Culture
Competence
Career
Connect 
54,245
Training hours conducted
Quality check on Coordinate Measuring Machine, Driveline, Chh Sambhajinagar 
36  
37 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Learning and Development
Thriversity
Leaders as Coaches
Samavesh
Endurance Leadership Academy
Learning Academy
Levelling Up
Our onboarding initiative ‘Samavesh’ 
offers a two-day induction 
experience, helping new employees 
integrate seamlessly into the 
organisation.
The programme is designed to 
familiarise new hires with the 
Company’s values, systems and 
expectations from the outset.
 
Ê
A curated leadership 
development initiative created 
in collaboration with external 
partners, aimed at people 
leaders.
 
Ê
This eight-month programme is 
designed to build comprehensive 
leadership capabilities through a 
blend of experiential learning and 
360-degree feedback.
 
Ê
An e-learning platform tailored 
for managers, senior managers 
and senior leadership (up to Vice 
Presidents), focused on soft skill 
enhancement and professional 
development.
 
Ê
Plans are also underway to 
introduce skill-based training 
modules for shop-floor operators 
to support role-specific growth.
 
Ê
This programme equips people 
managers with coaching skills, 
encouraging a development-
focused approach to team 
management.
 
Ê
Selected participants undergo 
a structured 11-week journey to 
enhance their ability to support, 
guide and empower their teams.
 
Ê
A structured nine-month 
programme aimed at mid- to 
senior-level managers, designed 
to enhance supervisory and 
managerial skills.
 
Ê
The curriculum covers core 
leadership behaviours, team 
management and business 
understanding and culminates 
with a certificate of completion.
 
Ê
Under the succession planning 
process, individuals with high 
potential have been identified 
across different levels.
 
Ê
These employees are guided 
through focused development 
journeys to build their 
managerial readiness and 
prepare them for expanded 
responsibilities.
Developing Future Leaders from Within
Potential talent across junior, middle and senior levels 
is identified through a structured succession planning 
programme. Holistic assessment centres, individual career 
plans and leadership projects equip selected individuals 
to take on expanded responsibilities. These projects span 
core functions and are aligned to organisational goals, with 
guidance from senior mentors.
A three-year development roadmap has been introduced for 
all high-potential individuals. Participants create personalised 
learning maps based on their career aspirations and growth 
areas. The programme includes group learning sessions, peer 
coaching, leader-as-coach modules and speed mentoring, 
supported by external partners. Select individuals are provided 
coaching to further build leadership effectiveness.
Endurance Youth Leadership Programme
The Endurance Youth Leadership Programme brings together 
employees from diverse functions and locations to work on 
high-impact projects. It offers exposure to new domains, 
strengthens cross-functional capabilities and prepares 
individuals to take on broader responsibilities. Team members 
often uncover new interests and areas of strength through 
these experiences. Guided by senior leaders, each team 
benefits from structured mentorship and hands-on learning. 
The initiative has played a key role in driving cultural shifts, 
raising performance standards and creating lasting value 
across the organisation.
Strengthening Frontline Leadership
We have introduced a supervisory development initiative 
across our casting plants, beginning with teams in production, 
quality and maintenance. Participants enhance their technical 
knowledge through Thors, an e-learning platform, while 
building problem-solving abilities, quality orientation and 
behavioural skills through programmes delivered with external 
partners such as 9 Dots. Each participant undertakes an 
Action Learning Project to translate knowledge into practical 
outcomes, strengthening both individual capability and plant-
level performance.
Diversity, equity and inclusion
We have built a fair and inclusive workplace, where people 
are valued without bias based on gender, age, background, 
or belief. Our focus remains on building balanced teams and 
strengthening internal systems that support equity.
Our Winning the Women initiative provides practical sessions on 
self-care, self-awareness, and financial well-being. We are working 
towards reaching 15% gender diversity among white-collar 
employees and 10% among blue-collar employees by 2030.
Through the E-Bud programme, candidates from nearby 
colleges are recruited and trained over six months before 
being offered full-time roles. A dedicated Gender Diversity 
Committee monitors actions across the organisation to support 
this direction. This approach supports better decision-making 
and a work culture built on openness and respect.
SHE Endurance 
We prioritise creating a workplace that is welcoming and fair 
for all employees. We focus on increasing gender diversity 
by recruiting women from campuses, thereby broadening 
our talent pool. We have also set up a Gender Diversity 
Committee. This committee is responsible for implementing 
initiatives that promote fairness and inclusion. We are 
enhancing our crèche facility to provide reliable childcare 
services, ensuring women have the support they need to 
balance work and family responsibilities.
8%
Women in total hiring (White Collar)
38  
39 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
SDP  
(Supervisor  
Development 
Programme) 
We continue to strengthen our workforce through targeted learning programmes and long-term retention efforts. Leadership and 
supervisory development remain core to our people strategy, with structured interventions designed to build capability across levels.
Our key programmes include 
267
246
319
Employees with 
5+ years of service 
(Between 5 to 10 years)
Employees with 
10+ years of service 
(Between 10 to 15 years)
Employees with 
15+ years of service  
(Above 15 years)
EDGE 
EYLP  
(Endurance  
Young Leaders 
Programme) 
A nine-month initiative to prepare 
high-potential employees for future 
managerial roles.
Engages young professionals through 
hands-on projects and mentorship to 
shape future-ready talent.
Focuses on developing frontline 
supervisors through technical and 
behavioural training.
We prioritise a safe and healthy work environment 
for our employees. During ‘Safety Month’ 
and weekly awareness campaigns, we engage 
employees in hazard identification and mitigation 
activities, supported by regular safety audits at 
all locations. We partner with medical experts to 
host health talks and medical camps that address 
both physical and mental well-being. To promote 
holistic wellness, we also organise de-addiction 
workshops, Yoga Day sessions, and Sports Day 
events, ensuring everyone can enjoy a balanced, 
healthy lifestyle.
We promote a healthy work environment through 
our Work-Life Balance Initiative, launched 
in October 2021. This includes a five-day 
workweek for corporate and R&D teams, and the 
Family Engagement Programme to strengthen 
employee-family connection. These initiatives 
reflect our intent to support their well-being, 
while maintaining focus and stability at work.
Fair wages, equal opportunity, and strict 
compliance with employment laws are central to 
our labour practices. We conduct both internal 
and external audits to verify adherence, with our 
team monitoring workplace practices against the 
Company’s Code of Conduct.
To address workforce challenges, we revised piece-
rate wages, narrowing the gap between daily-
rated and piece-rate compensation, boosting both 
availability and motivation. During organisational 
and digital transitions, we aligned contract and 
permanent staff through targeted initiatives. As 
we introduced face-recognition attendance and 
mobile leave management systems, we supported 
employees with regular training, prompt issue 
resolution, and feedback sessions to ensure 
usability, fairness, and transparency.
We continue to build a workplace where well-being and balance are integral. Our work-life balance initiative encourages 
Endurians to take periodic leave for personal and family time. A five-day week for corporate, R&D and senior leaders supports this 
further. Through our Family Engagement Programme, families visit our facilities, understand work environments and receive safety 
briefings. A confidential 1-to-1 Help Hotline is also available to employees for personal and professional support. Enhancing our 
wellness framework, the Endurance Health Benefit Plan was introduced in collaboration with a leading health-tech platform. It 
provides healthcare access to employees and their families, supporting preventive care and overall health.
Health and 
Safety 
Ethical labour 
practices 
Prioritising Well-being 
and Balance
HR Initiatives and 
Retention
40  
41 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Strategic sourcing and 
supply chain resilience 
Our strategic sourcing approach is 
built on a rigorous quarterly review 
process that helps us stay aligned 
with both immediate demand and 
long-term growth plans, especially as 
we expand into areas such as ABS, 
BMS, and lightweight die-casting 
components. We work proactively to 
build supply readiness by assessing 
supplier capabilities, indigenising key raw 
materials, and forging partnerships with 
cost-effective global vendors.
For critical components, we benchmark costs 
against customer price expectations and 
implement indexation models that ensure 
fair alignment between our input costs and 
customer settlements. Regular vendor meets 
and unique structured platforms such as 
Endurance Vendor Association (EVA) give 
us the opportunity to engage directly with 
suppliers at a leadership level, fostering 
deeper collaboration and ensuring they grow 
with us.
Powering progress through process
Driven by a constant focus on quality, cost, delivery, and safety, we 
continuously pursue efficiency across all manufacturing and service processes 
through data-driven decision-making, automation, and lean principles. 
Our approach to operational excellence is anchored in systematic process control, proactive supplier development, and close 
alignment with evolving customer and product requirements—especially in electric and premium vehicle segments. With a strong 
emphasis on consistency, we continue to integrate digital tools, strengthen sourcing strategies, and enhance quality systems 
across the organisation.
Supply Chain Efficiency and Capability Building
To enhance operational efficiency, Industry 4.0 tools such as OEE and energy 
dashboards are being used by suppliers. Advanced controls and machine 
interlocks are implemented to ensure process reliability.
We also facilitate technology handholding, supporting automation, 
layout optimisation, camera-based inspections, and improved logistics at 
vendor locations.
Dedicated training sessions—such as Technology Day Programmes are 
conducted by proprietary suppliers to enhance knowledge at ETL interfaces.
Our supplier audit programme includes product-specific training, self-audits, 
and qualification benchmarks, requiring a minimum 75% score for selection. 
Joint VAVE (Value Analysis and Value Engineering) initiatives are conducted to 
drive cost competitiveness while maintaining quality.
Sustainability in the Supply Chain
Sustainability is an integral part of our 
sourcing approach. We work closely with 
vendors to monitor and improve water 
conservation, carbon neutrality, use 
of renewable energy, waste recycling, 
eco-friendly packaging, among others, 
across the entire supply chain.
Through structured programmes on 
TPM, development and capability 
building, suppliers are encouraged 
to improve both operational, as 
well as environmental performance. 
Outstanding contributions are 
recognised through various 
performance awards, including 
a Sustainability Award recently 
introduced at our annual vendor meet.
Through digital platforms, suppliers 
are evaluated, tracked, and supported 
on quality, compliance, and delivery 
parameters. A centralised portal 
enables access to QFRs, NCRs, change 
management requests, and 4M 
declarations, ensuring transparency and 
speed in supplier interaction. Regular 
audits and assessments are carried out with 
a cross-functional approach, benchmarking 
practices against OEM standards.
Performance improvement programmes, 
structured capability development, 
and annual training schedules allow for 
targeted upgrades of suppliers. Our 
sourcing team also monitors long-term 
capability development and drives VA/
VE initiatives and patent collaborations, 
ensuring suppliers are equipped not just 
to supply, but to co-create value.
Quality assurance and 
customer responsiveness
By embedding feedback loops, 
technology upgrades, and supplier-
level interventions, we ensure swift 
and effective responses to customer 
concerns. A case in point is how we 
addressed a rear shock absorber spring 
failure—by conducting a thorough 
root cause analysis in collaboration 
with both tier-1 and tier-2 vendors, we 
implemented corrective measures at 
the source.
Robust process interlocks, traceability 
mechanisms, and audit routines help us 
prevent recurrence and institutionalise 
quality improvements. We have extended 
quality checks and system building to 
tier-2 and tier-3 vendors, especially those 
handling surface treatment and raw 
material supply, significantly enhancing 
end-to-end quality performance. These 
systems are further reinforced through 
continuous feedback from customers 
and internal teams, ensuring a proactive, 
rather than reactive, approach to quality 
assurance.
Technology in Quality and 
Sourcing
Technology is a key enabler across 
our sourcing and quality functions—
right from ERP integration to smart 
automation at supplier sites. We actively 
encourage our suppliers to adopt 
Industry 4.0 tools such as IoT-based 
monitoring, vision inspection, and pick-
and-place automation to improve process 
consistency and reduce defect rates.
Internally, we rely on data-driven insights 
drawn from supplier performance 
dashboards, online QFR/NCR closure 
systems, and approval platforms. These 
digital tools ensure traceability, reduced 
cycle times, and enhanced accountability. 
With structured analytics, we are able 
to drive focused interventions, resolve 
issues quickly, and allocate new product 
development opportunities based on 
actual performance.
Innovation-driven 
collaboration
Collaborating closely with our suppliers 
on innovation has delivered measurable 
gains—be it in reducing product 
costs, accelerating time-to-market, or 
introducing new technologies. Joint 
development projects such as the oil lock 
collar with Premier Engineering leading 
to a joint patent, and alternate material 
sourcing with Tata and RSW highlight the 
importance of strategic partnerships in 
unlocking competitive advantage.
We encourage value engineering through 
structured benefit-sharing mechanisms, 
and we recognise supplier contributions 
in technology adoption, digitisation and 
new product development during our 
annual Vendor Meet. These initiatives not 
only enhance product competitiveness 
but also foster deeper, more enduring 
supplier relationships.
Endurance Vendor Meet 2025
42  
43 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Committed to communities
CSR remains a key priority at Endurance. Our focus lies in addressing 
inequalities by engaging meaningfully with communities, inspiring young 
minds and enabling individuals to realise their potential. 
We adopt a comprehensive approach, supporting interventions across education, health and sanitation, livelihood generation, and 
environment. Every initiative is grounded in an understanding of local needs, with solutions designed to be relevant, inclusive and 
enduring. As our efforts expand to new locations, we align with stakeholders to ensure continuity, foster community ownership, and lay 
the groundwork for long-term, transformative progress.
Our strategic focus area 
Education
Livelihood
Health and 
sanitation
Environment 
Improve access and 
quality of school 
education, digital literacy 
and skilling
Enhance employability, 
income generation and 
entrepreneurship skills
Strengthen healthcare 
access and rural 
sanitation infrastructure
Promote sustainable 
ecological practices and 
climate resilience
Ensuring holistic 
development through 
education
We believe every child should have the 
opportunity to realise their full potential. 
Deep-rooted gender disparities 
continue to constrain this possibility 
across communities. Through targeted 
interventions such as distributing 
bicycles to improve school access, 
renovating school infrastructure, building 
toilets within the school, establishing 
libraries, conducting interactive life 
skills and child rights workshops and 
providing RO systems for safe drinking 
water, we aim to create an environment 
that encourages aspiration and supports 
learning outcomes.
These interventions have directly 
contributed to increased attendance 
across thousands of students in 
beneficiary schools. The initiatives 
have also reduced migration from Zilla 
Parishad (ZP) schools to private schools. 
We have also increased the digital 
literacy of students through World on 
Wheels (WoW) initiative.
3
167
556
Schools renovated with new 
toilets for boys and girls
Students inspired for 100% 
attendance
Individuals empowered through 
WoW computer training
Students at a renovated school in Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar
44  
45 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Enhancing livelihood
We support individuals, particularly 
women, in building pathways to economic 
independence. In rural communities, 
we engage with women to identify 
their interests, enhance their skills, 
facilitate access to microfinance and offer 
continued guidance as they establish 
their own enterprise. Our vocational 
training centre extends similar support to 
individuals from vulnerable backgrounds, 
74%
30
200+ 
Job placement 
rate achieved 
Companies tied up 
for placements
Candidates graduated  
from ECoVE.
Health and Sanitation
We believe that access to basic 
healthcare is essential for a dignified 
life, and our efforts are directed 
at enhancing access to essential 
services in under-served rural areas. 
We support sanitation by building 
toilets and conducting hygiene 
training sessions. We organise health 
check-ups, facilitate rehabilitation 
4,850
12
Villagers benefitted through 
health camps 
People de-addicted 
from alcohol
including orphans and those from remand 
homes, equipping them with market-
relevant skills. Over 200 candidates 
graduated from the vocational training 
centre, having completed training in 
areas such as tailoring, computers, retail 
marketing,machine maintenance, die-
casting, and electrical work.
In rural areas, we work closely with 
farmers to promote organic farming and 
build capacity for higher productivity. 
This includes training in hydroponics, 
drip irrigation, and better cattle-rearing 
methods to improve milk yield and boost 
water efficiency. We supported sustainable 
agriculture through the distribution of 
vermi compost kits and training farmers 
in organic cultivation and integrated pest 
control methods. 
Women entrepreneurs supported by Bachat Gat SHG, Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar
Health check-up at a mobile medical unit in Chh Sambhajinagar
for alcohol dependency, and 
promote overall well-being. Focused 
interventions on women’s health, 
including menstrual hygiene and 
family planning, are helping create 
long-term benefits for households 
and communities alike.
Our health and nutrition efforts 
promote balanced diets and eco-
friendly food habits, encourage 
avoidance of packaged junk food 
and offer counselling through mobile 
health vans.
46  
47 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Eco-efforts in motion
Sustaining community well-being is 
closely tied to environmental health. 
In pursuit of this balance, we are 
investing in renewable energy and 
water conservation initiatives. Solar 
power units and street lights have 
been installed in 3 villages. Rainwater 
harvesting projects have been 
implemented alongside pond de-silting, 
waterway deepening and reservoir 
creation. Access to clean drinking 
water has been improved through the 
development of pipeline infrastructure. 
To promote sustainable agriculture, 
farmers are being trained in hydroponics 
and drip irrigation and provided with 
mangers, resulting in reduction of 
fodder consumption by over 40%.
.
Dense Forest 
Development
Solar Village- Enabling 
Clean Energy Access
Our approach included the creation of 
dense forests, a key differentiator of 
our CSR efforts. Dense forests were 
developed by planting over 2,20,000 
native tree saplings across 22.5 acre in 
three villages, featuring 63 local species 
to regenerate biodiversity and create 
green community assets.
Another notable effort was the 
development of a solar village in 
Pofla (Fulambri block), where rooftop 
solar systems were installed in all 77 
households, enabling access to reliable, 
clean energy and establishing the village 
as a model for decentralised renewable 
energy adoption.
Water and Sanitation – Strengthening 
Groundwater and Hygiene
To address water scarcity, initiatives such as nallah deepening, pond de-silting, farm 
pond creation, and soak pit construction were undertaken, improving groundwater 
recharge and ensuring availability during dry periods. We deepened 6.4 Km of 
nallah, and de-silted 3 ponds. 
Our CSR execution approach
CSR initiatives at Endurance are implemented through a mix of direct action, collaborations with grassroots NGOs, and 
coordination with local authorities. Projects are carefully selected based on community relevance, scalability, and direct 
feedback from beneficiaries. Each programme is tracked through clearly defined output and outcome metrics, supported 
by regular reviews. Oversight is provided by the CSR Committee of the Board, which ensures that all efforts align with our 
social commitments, ethical values, and statutory obligations under the Companies Act.
2,20,000
Trees planted in FY 2024-25
Dense forest developed by the Company at Mamnabad, Chh Sambhajinagar
Canal deepened to increase water capacity
48  
49 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Driving a greener tomorrow 
At Endurance, sustainability is embedded at the core of our operations. 
We are committed to reducing our environmental footprint by adopting 
energy-efficient manufacturing practices, optimising resource use, and 
minimising waste. 
Our focus on sustainable product design and production processes align with our goal to drive innovation while contributing to a 
greener future. Through initiatives like the adoption of renewable energy, waste recycling and continuous improvements in energy 
consumption, we ensure that our growth is responsible, environmentally conscious and aligned with global sustainability standards.
Sustainability targets and 
commitments 
We are focused on aligning with 
India’s climate objectives and global 
sustainability frameworks, setting a 
goal to achieve 50% carbon neutrality 
and 50% renewable energy adoption 
by 2030. These targets contribute 
to national commitments under the 
Paris Agreement and support the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
related to climate action, responsible 
consumption and energy transition.
We adhere to the Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) 
framework as mandated by SEBI. In 
addition, we ensure our disclosures are 
aligned with internationally recognised 
frameworks such as GRI, SASB, and 
TCFD. To strengthen credibility and 
accountability, we incorporate external 
assurance, third-party validations, and 
performance benchmarking against ESG 
rating agencies, ensuring continuous 
improvement in our ESG reporting.
We signed our commitment letter to 
the Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi) in September 2024, marking a 
key milestone in our decarbonisation 
journey. We focus that we advance our 
efforts to align with SBTi requirements, 
strengthening our long-term goal of 
reducing emissions across operations and 
the value chain, and progressing towards 
carbon neutrality.
Our Targets aligning to SBTi Initiatives 
By embedding SBTi-aligned targets into our business 
strategy, we demonstrate a structured approach to 
emissions reduction—reflecting our commitment to 
sustainable growth, regulatory preparedness, climate 
resilience, and alignment with global best practices in ESG.
Initiatives to achieve sustainability 
Scope 1 and 2 
emissions Inventory
Scope 3 Emissions 
Mapping
Net  
Zero roadmap
SBTi  
Target Submission
Inventory, submission, 
and third-party 
verification in 
partnership with CII.
Training, category 
mapping, and initial 
data collection using 
CII templates.
Developing roadmap 
focused on energy 
efficiency, renewables, 
light-weighting,  
and LCA insights.
Near-term and  
long-term targets  
to be submitted for  
SBTi validation.
Energy 
conservation 
Environmental 
CSR projetcs 
Sustainability 
initiatives 
Renewable 
Energy projetcs 
Capability 
Building 
Energy  
Conservation
Renewable  
Energy Projects
We have undertaken several 
optimisation projects aimed at 
enhancing energy efficiency across our 
operations. These initiatives focus on 
improving performance and reducing 
consumption of energy through 
upgrades in various systems.
We have made significant investments 
in renewable energy as part of our 
long-term commitment to clean 
energy and sustainability. These efforts 
are aimed at reducing our carbon 
footprint, enhancing energy efficiency, 
and supporting a more resilient 
and environmentally responsible 
manufacturing ecosystem.
These projects are part of a broader strategy to minimise energy consumption while maintaining operational excellence.
Key focus areas 
Key focus areas 
 
Ê
We have included compressed air management, where efficiency is maximised to 
reduce wastage
 
Ê
Lighting systems are upgraded to more energy-efficient alternatives
 
Ê
Ventilation improvements are made to reduce the energy needed for climate 
control
 
Ê
Fuel usage is reduced across processes to ensure less reliance on non-renewable 
energy sources
As part of our long-term commitment to clean energy, we have set up captive wind 
and solar installations across multiple plants, governed by long-term Power Purchase 
Agreements (PPAs), ensuring a stable and consistent supply of green energy. By 
leveraging wind and solar power, we are actively reducing our dependence on fossil 
fuels and lowering our overall carbon footprint.
50  
51 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Environmental 
Projects
Capability  
building 
We are dedicated to making a positive 
impact on the environment.
To build internal expertise in 
sustainability and environmental 
governance, we have deployed a series 
of structured training programmes 
across our business units. These 
programmes cover key topics such as 
Environmental, Social, and Governance 
(ESG) best practices and Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) accounting.
These projects are part of a broader strategy to minimise energy consumption while maintaining operational excellence.
Key focus areas 
Key focus areas 
Our environmental initiatives focus on long-term ecological balance and community 
well-being. These include dense afforestation projects that enhance biodiversity and 
create green spaces, rainwater harvesting systems that improve water availability, and 
watershed management programmes that ensure the efficient use and preservation 
of water resources. Together, these efforts support ecosystem restoration while 
delivering tangible benefits to the surrounding communities.
Frameworks such as GreenCo play a key role in embedding sustainable practices 
across the organisation. Through targeted training initiatives, employees at all 
levels are equipped with the knowledge and tools needed to actively contribute 
to Endurance’s sustainability goals. This focus on capability building is integral to 
nurturing a culture of sustainability and achieving long-term environmental and 
social objectives.
These initiatives are monitored through a well-defined governance structure, supported by regular reviews, and internal ESG Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) to track progress. Quarterly reviews ensure that targets are met in a timely manner and provide an 
opportunity to adjust strategies where necessary to stay on course.
Efforts to minimise fossil fuel dependency
Initiatives 
Cleaner fuel shifts 
Gravity conveyor systems 
Electrification studies 
HSD use Limitation 
Energy efficiency projects 
Expanded RE mix
Express feeders for DG sets 
Transitioning from high-speed diesel (HSD) to PNG/LPG in heat 
intensive operations, reducing emissions 
Utilising gravity-assisted movement in material handling to 
minimise energy consumption
Evaluating the feasibility of transitioning fossil fuel-based 
systems to electrical alternatives
Restricting diesel generator sets to emergency or standby use, 
significantly cutting Scope 1 emissions.
Implementing motor upgrades, process audits and load 
optimisation to enhance overall energy efficiency 
Increasing the share of renewable sources in total energy 
consumption to diversify and reduce dependence on fossil fuels
Optimising energy routing to reduce generator runtime and 
improve fuel efficiency 
Conserving water
We are dedicated to reducing water consumption and improving 
environmental practices across our operations. By adopting 
advanced technologies and optimising water usage, we ensure 
resource efficiency while maintaining operational effectiveness.
Key initiatives include the reuse of treated water, implementation 
of conservation projects, and process improvements that 
minimise freshwater dependency. Employee training and 
awareness programmes reinforce a culture of responsible water 
management, ensuring long-term sustainability.
All our manufacturing plants are 
equipped with Effluent Treatment 
Plants (ETPs) and Sewage Treatment 
Plants (STPs) in compliance with 
pollution control board regulations
8%
Reduction in water consumption 
Zero liquid discharge (ZLD) systems 
have been deployed for complete 
reuse of treated water
Our programmes support water 
resilience outside the factory 
boundary.
52  
53 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Water conservation initiatives 
We are systematically working towards achieving Water+ status by implementing a wide range of water efficiency measures that 
span across our operations. This proactive approach includes the adoption of innovative technologies and practices aimed at 
minimising water consumption, maximising resource reuse and enhancing sustainability. By integrating these water stewardship 
practices into the operational framework, the Company is not only ensuring regulatory compliance but also contributing to the 
long-term health of water resources in its surrounding communities.
Initiatives 
Zero liquid discharge
Reuse of treated effluents
Community water projects
Employee engagement and campaigns
Water efficient operations
Rainwater harvesting
Water metering and MIS
Implemented at key sites to ensure complete water reuse and 
prevent any discharge into the environment
Treated water is recycled for secondary applications such as 
landscape irrigation and facility utilities, promoting resource 
efficiency and sustainability.
CSR initiatives focused on improving water availability for local 
communities.
Launched over 20 targeted water conservation initiatives 
at different locations to raise awareness and encourage 
responsible water use.
Implemented at key locations to enable 100% water reuse and 
ensure zero liquid discharge, reinforcing our commitment to 
water-efficient operations.
We have established infrastructure to capture and use rainwater 
across various sites.
Installed real-time monitoring systems with monthly reviews by 
plant leadership to track water usage
Technological integration
The Company has adopted several advanced technologies 
to optimise waste-water management across its operations, 
aiming to improve water reuse, minimise environmental 
impact, and ensure compliance with regulatory standards. 
These innovations focus on efficient treatment processes, 
resource recovery, and the sustainable management  
of wastewater. 
Advanced rainwater harvesting system at nine plants 
Treated sewage reuse in cooling towers, flushing 
and horticulture
Closed loop water curtain systems in paint shops 
Cascading rinse systems in surface treatment to 
cut rinse water usage. 
Managing waste sustainably
We have adopted a comprehensive zero waste to landfill 
strategy across five of its sites, making significant strides in 
enhancing sustainable waste management practices. The 
Company’s commitment to reducing its environmental footprint 
is reflected through the following initiatives 
3R policy  
implementation 
Chrome and  
Nickel recovery
Decanters and  
Volute presses 
Returnable and fit-for-
purpose packaging
On-site recycling of 
aluminium scrap
PCB -approved 
vendor compliance
Coolant  
recycling systems 
Certifications and 
monitoring 
A framework of Reduce, Reuse and Recycle has been implemented across operations to 
minimise waste generation and maximise resource efficiency.
A framework of Reduce, Reuse and Recycle has been implemented across operations to 
minimise waste generation and maximise resource efficiency.
These technologies are used to reduce moisture content in waste materials, thereby 
improving disposal efficiency and minimising environmental impact
A focus on reducing packaging waste through the use of returnable and optimised 
packaging solutions.
Scrap aluminium is recycled in-house, reducing the need for external disposal and 
contributing to material circularity.
The Company ensures compliance with hazardous waste disposal regulations by partnering 
with PCB-approved vendors for safe and responsible disposal of such materials.
Centralised systems have been established to recycle coolants, reducing chemical 
waste and supporting the efficient use of resources.
Adherence to ISO standards, comprehensive audit trails and regular performance 
reviews help track waste reduction progress, ensuring ongoing improvement against 
established KPIs.
These initiatives are part of the Company’s broader efforts to drive environmental stewardship and enhance its sustainability 
performance across operations.
Recycling initiatives 
With our continuous focus on achieving zero waste, we have further enhanced our recycling performance, surpassing 91%, by 
leveraging several key initiatives that promote sustainability and resource efficiency. These include.
Returnable packaging in 
logistics chain 
Aluminium recycling at shop-
floor level 
Reuse of wooden pallets  
across locations 
Source reduction programmes
Alignment to circular economy
These initiatives have played a crucial role in advancing our waste reduction goals, driving efficiency, and supporting a more 
sustainable future.
54  
55 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Sustainability in operations 
Sustainability is embedded into daily operations, ensuring that environmental responsibility, and operational efficiency move 
together. Through a structured framework and engagement with internal and external stakeholders, we continue to drive 
measurable improvements in energy efficiency, resource optimisation, and eco-friendly practices across our facilities.
Key focus areas 
Daily ESG performance reviews at 
plant level (water, waste, energy 
and emissions)
Vendor ESG workshops to build 
awareness and compliance
Regular energy audits and calibration 
with CII and EnCon teams
Zero waste practices: Recycling, 
segregation, landfill avoidance
Continuous improvement based 
on stakeholder feedback
Employee training on energy-
saving SOPs
Plant-level performance dashboards 
monitoring energy intensity
Resource optimisation to reduce 
material and energy intensity
Customer audits for ESG 
benchmarking and corrective actions
Dedicated EnCon Leaders at each 
plant to lead ISO 50001 initiatives
Energy efficiency programmes: 
LED lighting, VFDs, compressed 
air management upgrades
Supplier ESG scorecards integrated 
into procurement evaluations
Sustainability-aligned budgeting to 
prioritise energy reduction CapEx
Smart utilities: Auto shut-off 
systems, IRIS power optimisation, 
daylight harvesting
Regulatory engagement aligned 
with BRSR, CPCB and ISO norms
GreenCo and ISO certification for 
validation and benchmarking
Eco-friendly shopfloor practices
Stakeholder collaboration for sustainability
Energy efficiency and resource conservation
Governance
Strong governance is central to our sustained performance and ethical 
operations. Our Board of Directors provide strategic direction and 
oversight, ensuring alignment with the Company’s long-term vision and 
regulatory framework. Key Committees of the Board continue to play 
an integral role in upholding transparency, accountability and robust risk 
management practices.
2
5
Women Directors 
Independent Directors 
The governance framework remained focused on compliance, 
stakeholder interests and seamless execution of responsibilities 
across all levels. Internal control systems were periodically 
reviewed, and policies were assessed to ensure they remain 
robust and contemporary. We maintain a culture of ethical 
conduct, guided by a clear Code of Conduct and whistle-
blower mechanisms, reinforcing our zero-tolerance approach 
to any non-compliant behaviour.
Board 
Committees 
Audit  
Committee 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Risk 
Management 
Committee
CSR 
Committee 
Vigil Mechanism
Our Vigil Mechanism-cum-Whistle-blower Policy offers a secure and confidential platform for employees and stakeholders 
to voice concerns regarding potential misconduct, ethical breaches or other irregularities. It reflects our intent to promote 
transparency while safeguarding individuals against any form of retaliation.
By encouraging early reporting and assuring impartial review of all disclosures, we aim to uphold trust in our systems and 
reinforce ethical accountability at every level. This mechanism plays a vital role in strengthening our governance fabric and 
cultivating a work environment rooted in integrity.
56  
57 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Mrs. Varsha Jain 
Director and Head – CSR 
and Facility Management
C
Board of Directors 
Key for our Board Level Committees
Audit Committee
A
R
Risk Management Committee
N
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee
C
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee
Mr. Soumendra Basu
Ms. Anjali Seth 
Mr. Anurang Jain 
Chairman 
Mr. Massimo Venuti 
Non-executive Director
Independent Director
Mr. Alfredo Altavilla 
Independent Director
Mr. Anant Talaulicar
Independent Director
Managing Director
S
Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee
N
S
A
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
Independent Director
N
R
A
Mr. Rajendra Abhange
Director and  
Chief Operating Officer
R
C
Mr. Satrajit Ray 
Non-executive Director
S
Awards and recognition 
DET Hurun India Manufacturing 
Excellence Awards- 2024
Ford Q1 certification for the B 
1/3 plant at Chakan
CII Intellectual  
Property Award, 2024
Innovation Award at the 
Mahindra Vendor Meet
Platinum and Gold awards won 
by the brake plants at the Bajaj 
Auto Vendor Meet
Assocham  
IP Excellence Award 
LACP Gold Award – Annual 
Report 2023-24
Ranked among Fortune India’s  
‘Future-ready Workplaces’
‘VA/VE Award’  
from Royal Enfield 
Featured among Outlook 
Magazine’s Future Ready 
Workplaces 
A
N
C
S
R
C
58  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
|
59 
Annual Report 2024-25
Board of Directors
Soumendra Basu 
Chairman
Anurang Jain 
Managing Director
Satrajit Ray
Anjali Seth
Massimo Venuti
Varsha Jain
Indrajit Banerjee 
Anant Talaulicar
Rajendra Abhange (w.e.f 6th June, 2024)
Alfredo Altavilla (w.e.f. 1st September, 2024)
Audit Committee
Indrajit Banerjee - Chairman
Soumendra Basu
Anjali Seth
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee 
Anjali Seth - Chairperson
Soumendra Basu
Indrajit Banerjee
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee
Anurang Jain - Chairman 
Soumendra Basu 
Varsha Jain
Rajendra Abhange
Risk Management Committee 
Anurang Jain - Chairman 
Indrajit Banerjee
Rajendra Abhange
R. S. Raja Gopal Sastry 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
Anjali Seth - Chairperson 
Anurang Jain
Satrajit Ray
Subsidiary Companies 
Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy
Endurance GmbH, Germany
Endurance SpA, Italy
Endurance Engineering Srl, Italy
Endurance Castings SpA, Italy
Endurance Two Wheelers SpA, Italy 
(formerly known as Endurance Adler 
SpA)
Veicoli Srl, Italy
GDS Sarl, Tunisia
Ingenia Automation Srl, Italy (acquired on 
31st May, 2024)
Stöferle GmbH,Germany (acquired on 2nd 
April, 2025)
Stöferle Automotive GmbH, Germany 
(acquired on 2nd April, 2025)
Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited, 
India
Management Team
Anurang Jain 
Managing Director 
Rajendra Abhange 
Director and Chief Operating Officer   
Varsha Jain 
Director and Head - CSR and Facility 
Management 
R. S. Raja Gopal Sastry  
Group Chief Financial Officer 
Sunil Kolhe 
Chief Sourcing Officer 
Prabhas C. Dash 
President – Aftermarket 
K. Srinivasan 
Cluster Business Head, Plant Operations 
Ramanamurthy Neti 
Cluster Business Head, Plant Operations 
Murali Krishna Gangasetty 
Cluster Business Head, Plant Operations 
Sanjay Sanghai 
President – Strategic Sourcing 
Sunil Lalai 
Company Secretary, Compliance Officer 
and Head – Legal 
Raj Kumar Mundra 
Treasurer and Head – Investor Relations 
Jignesh Gandhi 
Head – Marketing and Business 
Development
Company Secretary
Sunil Lalai 
Company Secretary, Compliance Officer 
and Head – Legal
Auditors
S R B C & Co. LLP  
Chartered Accountants 
Ground Floor, Tower C Unit 1, Panchshil 
Tech Park One, Loop Road, Near Don 
Bosco School, Yerwada, Pune - 411 006, 
Maharashtra
Secretarial Auditor
Sachin Bhagwat 
Practicing Company Secretary  
516, Siddhartha Towers - I, G.A. Kulkarni 
Road, Kothrud,  Pune - 411 038, 
Maharashtra
Corporate Information
Bankers
Citibank N.A 
ICICI Bank Ltd. 
IDBI Bank Ltd. 
Standard Chartered Bank 
BNP Paribas  
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited 
Axis Bank Ltd.
Registrar and Transfer Agent
MUFG Intime India Private Limited 
C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S Marg, 
Vikhroli West, Mumbai - 400 083 
Tel: (0) 810 811 6767 
Fax: +91 22 49186060 
E-mail: rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com 
Website: www.in.mpms.mufg.com
Registered Office
E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, 
Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar - 431 136, 
Maharashtra 
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296 
Email for investors: 
investors@endurance.co.in
Plants
Chh. Sambhajinagar (Maharashtra) 
Plot Nos. B-2, E-92 & 93, K-120,  
K-226/1 & 227, K-226/2, K-228 & 229, 
L- 6/3, L-6/3/1&2 and E-71, MIDC Industrial Area, 
Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar - 431136
Plot No. L-20, MIDC Industrial Area, 
Vitawa Village, Gangapur, 
Tal. Chh. Sambhajinagar - 431 109
Pune (Maharashtra) 
Plot Nos. B-1/2 & 1/3, 
B-20, B-22 & A-12, 
MIDC Industrial Area, Chakan, 
Village Nighoje, Taluka Khed, 
Dist. Pune - 410 501
Pantnagar (Uttarakhand) 
Plot Nos. 3 & 7, Sector 10, 
I.I.E. Pantnagar, 
Dist. U.S. Nagar - 263 153
Chennai (Tamil Nadu) 
Plot No. F-82, SIPCOT Industrial Park, 
Irungattaukottai, Pennaur Post, 
Shriperumburam Taluk, Kanchipuram  
Dist  Chennai - 602 105
Vallam (Tamil Nadu) 
G-102 & 103, SIPCOT Industrial Park, 
Vallam Vadagal Scheme, Village Vallam, 
Sriperumbudur Taluk, 
Kancheepuram Dist.  – 602105
Sanand (Gujarat) 
Plot No. E4 & E21, GIDC, Phase 2,  
Industrial Estate, Sanand, 
Ahmedabad - 382 110 
Halol (Gujarat) 
Plot 103/6, GIDC, Halol -2 &  
Halol Maswad Industrial Estate, 
Taluka – Halol, Dist. Panchmahal - 389 350
Kolar (Karnataka) 
Survey Nos. 28/4A, 28/4B, 28/5,  
28/6, 28/7, 28/8 & 34/5, within  
village limit of Karinayakanahalli, 
Kasaba Hobli, Malur Taluka, 
Kolar District - 563 130
60  
61 
Annual Report 2024-25
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion and Analysis
Economic review
Global economic review1 
In CY 2024, the global economy demonstrated remarkable 
resilience, achieving a growth rate of 3.3% despite navigating a 
turbulent landscape, marked by geopolitical tensions and high 
inflation levels. With economies embracing robust fiscal and 
monetary policies, it played a crucial role in stabilising the global 
economy. This also resulted in a gradual decrease in the global 
inflation level as compared to the previous fiscal year. 
Emerging Markets and Developing Economies (EMDEs) 
reported a growth rate of 4.3% in CY 2024, while advanced 
economies grew by 1.8%. Growth continued to be subdued 
in the Euro area, with Italy growing by 0.7% and Germany 
experienced a contraction of 0.2%, largely due to weak 
manufacturing and export sectors. In contrast, momentum in the 
US remained robust, with the economy expanding at the rate of 
2.7%, powered by strong consumption. 
Looking ahead, escalating trade tensions, divergent and swiftly 
changing policies or weakening sentiments can lead to tighter 
global financial conditions. On a more positive note, a slow 
but declining global inflation can favour economic activities  in 
general. Also, policy changes by large importers such as the 
USA could provide relative advantages to certain exporting 
countries like India. 
It is essential for countries to work constructively to promote 
a stable and predictable trade environment, facilitate debt 
restructuring and address challenges collectively. Central banks 
are adopting a more cautious approach to easing monetary 
policies, closely monitoring activity and labour market indicators 
as well as exchange rate movements. They need to fine-tune 
their monetary policies to maintain financial stability.
1https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/WEO/Issues/2025/04/22/world-economic-outlook-april-2025 
*Projected
Source: World Economic Outlook, IMF
Global GDP growth 
trend (%)
Advanced economies 
GDP growth trend (%)
EMDEs GDP 
growth trend (%)
Euro region GDP 
growth trend (%)
CY 2020
CY 2020
CY 2020
CY 2020
CY 2021 
CY 2021 
CY 2021 
CY 2021 
CY 2022
CY 2022
CY 2022
CY 2022
CY 2023
CY 2023
CY 2023
CY 2023
CY 2024
CY 2024
CY 2024
CY 2024
CY 2025*
CY 2025*
CY 2025*
CY 2025*
(3.1)
(4.5)
(2.1)
(6.3)
6.0
5.2
6.6
5.2
3.5
2.6
4.1
3.3
3.3
1.7
4.4
0.4
3.3
1.8
4.3
0.9
2.8
1.4
3.7
0.8
Endurance Overseas, Chivasso, Italy
62  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
2https://rbidocs.rbi.org.in/rdocs/Bulletin/PDFs/0BULT19032025F9CCA0AB1F7294130A950E2FD5448B5FC.PDF 
3https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2024/04/15/2863107/0/en/Automotive-Industry-Size-Expected-to-Reach-USD-6-678-28-Bn-by-2032.html
4https://www.researchandmarkets.com/report/automotive-parts?srsltid=AfmBOop97drH3VbalRn  
5https://www.industryarc.com/Research/Global-Automotive-5Parts-And-Components-Market-Research-512212
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
60.2 
67.7
Indian economic review
Amid a volatile global economic landscape, India's economy 
sustained its position as one of the fastest-growing economies 
in the world, achieving a growth rate of 6.5% in FY 2024-25.2  This 
growth can be attributed to prompt interventions of the Indian 
government and monetary policies implemented by country’s 
Central Bank, RBI. While the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) 
strengthened various sectors in the economy, ‘Make in India’ 
initiative boosted manufacturing activities during the latter half 
of the reported year. These initiatives were key drivers in scaling 
production in automobile industry. 
In FY 2024-25, the total FDI received by India reached USD 
67.7 billion, increasing from USD 60.2 billion in FY 2023-24. This 
increase has been crucial in injecting capital into the economy, 
further stimulating domestic economic activities. In addition to 
this, the total infrastructure investment has significantly increased, 
with public and private sector contributions shaping the growth 
trajectory. Some key initiatives undertaken by the Indian 
government, such as PM Gati Shakti, Bharatmala Pariyojana and 
Pradhan Mantri Grameen Sadak Yojana, have been critical in 
accelerating the progress of infrastructure development. 
The Indian economy is anticipated to maintain its positive 
growth in the coming years. This growth is expected to be driven 
by rising consumer demand, improved investment activity and 
policy support. With the Union Budget 2025-26 introducing tax 
relief for salaried individuals, it is anticipated that consumption 
will rise in the years ahead. India is poised to become the third-
largest economy globally, surpassing the economies of Japan 
and Germany by 2028. Additionally, India is maintaining a strict 
oversight on the evolving global tariff scenario while crafting a 
calibrated response to ensure that its growth trajectory is not 
impacted by the shifting trade dynamics.
Growth in FDI inflow (USD in billion)
Source: Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Bulletin - March 2025
Industry review
Global automobile industry review
In CY 2024, the global automotive industry saw modest growth, 
primarily due to stabilised supply chains and inventory restocking. 
Several companies are investing in research and development, 
particularly in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning 
(ML), to advance features such as autonomous driving and 
predictive maintenance. To strengthen their market position, 
firms are pursuing industry consolidation through mergers and 
acquisitions, while expanding their global presence and forming 
strategic partnerships.
The global automobile industry is anticipated to attain a market 
value of USD 6,388 billion by 20313, driven by increased sales of 
automobiles. It is essential for key players to understand market 
dynamics and cater to evolving market aspirations. 
Global auto components industry review 
The global auto component industry grew to USD 543 billion in 
CY 2024 from USD 518 billion in CY 2023.4  In an industry being 
marked by intense competition, rapid technology advancement 
and evolving consumer preferences, key players have 
established their position by prioritising innovation to improve 
product offerings and meet evolving market demand.  
The reported year witnessed significant transformations within 
the industry, driven by the growing shift towards Electric Vehicles 
(EV) and advancements in autonomous driving technology. 
Further, the automotive aftermarket segment experienced 
robust growth as an increase in automobiles raised the demand 
for maintenance and replacement parts.
The global auto component industry is expected to reach USD 
730 billion by 2030, exhibiting a CAGR growth of 5.03% from 2024 
to 2030.5  This industry growth is anticipated to be facilitated 
by consistent innovation and increased investment in electric 
vehicles. As industry players adapt to evolving market dynamics, 
they are actively exploring new geographies, diversifying 
product portfolios and undertaking different strategies to meet 
evolving consumer needs.
Loading operation on transmission housing line at Endurance SpA plant, Italy
63 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
Indian automobile industry review6 
The Indian automobile industry is one of the fastest-growing 
sectors driving economic growth in India. India is the largest 
manufacturer of three-wheelers and is among the top two 
manufacturers of two-wheelers globally. In the reporting year, 
the total export of the automotive and auto component industry 
reached USD 35 billion. 
India is on track to sustain the growth of its automobile industry 
in the coming years. The nation’s progress towards achieving 
30% EV by 2030 is further anticipated to drive the growth in the 
Indian automobile industry. 
Two-wheeler segment 
With sales of 23.81 million units in FY 2024-25, two-wheelers 
market witnessed a growth of 11.1%, compared to FY 2023-24. 
This growth can be attributed to improved rural demand and 
revival of consumer confidence. Scooters led the segment, 
driven by improved rural and semi-urban connectivity and 
availability of newer models with enhanced features.
Three-wheeler segment
The three-wheeler segment reported total sales of 1.05 million 
units in FY 2024-25, marking a growth of 5.7% in comparison to 
the previous year.  
Four-wheeler segment
Passenger Vehicle 
In the reporting year, the passenger vehicle segment posted a 
strong sale of 5.07 million unit. This growth was facilitated by 
new products launches, advanced features and modern design 
to meet evolving customer demand. Additionally, the industry 
recorded its highest-ever exports in FY 2024-25. 
Commercial vehicle 
The commercial vehicles segment grew in the latter half of 
the reporting year, supported by the expansion of highways 
and expressways. Additionally, the export of commercial 
vehicles exhibited positive growth, marking a growth of 23% in 
comparison to the previous year.
6https://www.siam.in/statistics.aspx?mpgid=8&pgidtrail=9
*The figures incude domestic and export sales 
(Nos in unit)
Category
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
Passenger Vehicles
36,47,398
45,53,005
48,90,855
50,72,212
Commercial Vehicles
8,08,863
1,041,113
10,34,588
10,37,657
Three Wheelers
7,61,115
8,54,317
9,94,778
10,48,334
Two Wheelers
1,80,13,139
1,95,14,893
2,14,32,781
2,38,05,735
Quadricycles
4,450
3,005
4,903
6,542
Grand Total
2,32,34,965
2,59,66,333
2,83,57,905
3,09,70,480
Sales by Indian OEMs*
64  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
7https://www.brickworkratings.com/Research/Indian%20Auto%20Component%20Manufacturing%20Industry.pdf
Electric vehicles
In the reporting year, total EV registration reached 1.97 million 
units, up from 1.68 million units in FY 2023-24. While the registration 
of E- two wheelers grew by 21.2% in FY 2024-25, E-three-wheelers 
grew by 10.1% in comparison to FY 2023-24. Uttar Pradesh, 
Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Delhi remained the top 
states contributing to the growth of the EV industry.
Government policies supporting the growth of EV industry 
in India 
•	
PM Electric Drive Revolution in Innovative Vehicle 
Enhancement (PM E-DRIVE) Scheme 
	
The PM E-DRIVE scheme was initiated to support 
the 
development 
of 
charging 
infrastructure 
and 
support the nationwide establishment of a holistic EV 
manufacturing ecosystem.
•	
FAME Policy (I and II)
	
The FAME I policy was introduced  in FY 2015-16 with a 
budget of H 8.95 billion, to support sustainable growth of 
EV ecosystem through technology development, demand 
creation and improvement of the charging infrastructure.
	
The Phase II of FAME policy, commenced from April 2019, 
with a budget of  H 100 billion for a period of 5 years, to 
support demand for EV industry. 
•	
Electric Mobility Promotion Scheme (EMPS) 2024
	
With an outlay of  H 5 billion, the EMPS was introduced to 
support faster adoption of electric two-wheelers (E2Ws) 
and three-wheelers (E3Ws). 
Size of Indian Auto Component Industry ($ Billion)
2026*
FY24
FY23
FY22
FY21
FY20
FY19
86
74.1
69.7
56.6
45.9
49.3
57.1
Source: ACMA
($ Billion)
CAGR  
6%
*projected
Indian auto components industry review 
The Indian auto component industry has become a cornerstone of 
India’s manufacturing sector and has firmly established itself as a key 
player in the global automotive supply chain. This growth can be 
linked to the increased demand for automobiles, primarily supported 
by emerging consumer segment and their rising disposable income. 
The industry comprises large corporations to micro entities, spread 
across the nation. Over the years, industry players have diversified 
their product portfolio and embraced advanced technology to cater 
to evolving market dynamics. 
The Indian auto component manufacturing industry is anticipated to 
attain a market size of USD 86 billion by 2026, creating employment 
opportunities and bolstering manufacturing activities. By FY 2027-
28, the Indian auto component industry plans to invest USD 7 billion 
to boost the localisation of advanced components such as electric 
motors and automatic transmissions. This initiative aims to reduce 
import reliance and capitalise on the China+1 strategy. Further, the 
Indian auto component industry is anticipated to reach USD 100 billion 
export target by 2030, supported by relevant governmental policies. 
The growth of EV industry is expected to boost the Indian auto 
component industry significantly in the coming years. With domestic 
players focusing on R&D, it is expected to further enhance product 
quality as well as increase global market competitiveness.7
65 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
Company overview
Endurance Technologies Limited has, since its inception, built  a 
strong reputation as a trusted global manufacturer of automotive 
components. With a diversified portfolio spanning aluminium 
die-casting, suspension, braking systems, transmission, and 
embedded-electronics, the Company serves a large market 
base. Its operations are anchored in delivering quality products 
and fostering customer trust, and positioning itself as a preferred 
partner across markets.
Endurance leverages its deep expertise in designing, developing 
and manufacturing of highly critical proprietary products to 
serve both Indian and international OEMs. Its five Department of 
Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) approved R&D centres 
support innovation and product development, reinforcing its 
position as a preferred supplier to its OEM customers. The 
Company also maintains a strong aftermarket presence across 
domestic and international markets.
26
Designs registered
5 
DSIR approved  
R&D centres
14 
Manufacturing 
plants in Europe
16
Patents granted 
19
Manufacturing 
plants in India
39
Countries with 
aftermarket presence
Key strengths of the Company 
Focused on  
long-term  
shareholder  
value 
creation
Resilient 
and  
scalable  
business  
model
Technology 
 leadership
Customer 
focus
Strong  
governance  
and ethical 
standards
High  
performance 
work-culture
Endurance Proving Ground at Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar
66  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
Manufacturing and R&D
The Company has strategically located manufacturing facilities 
in India and overseas, in close proximity to OEMs to ensure on-
time delivery. These modern, scalable facilities are designed to 
adapt to the industry trends, producing advanced, high-quality 
products. The Company's R&D facilities are driving innovation 
and technology intensified products, which not only enhance its 
leadership position in the industry but also improve its capacity 
to capitalise on emerging trends in advanced mobility solutions. 
Further, the Company has set up a state-of-the-art R&D facility 
in Waluj to cater to every automotive segment. significantly 
expanding its testing, design, engineering, and advanced R&D 
capabilities. This facility boasts an advanced laboratory and 
testing capabilities to meet the needs of emerging products such 
as smart mobility and sustainable product technologies for the 
future. It is poised to foster innovation, value engineering, and 
in-house development of future-ready suspension technologies.
 
Shendra
Bidkin
Stöferle 
At 
Aurangabad 
Industrial 
City 
(AURIC) Shendra, Endurance shall 
be introducing India’s first di-electric 
powder coating service for electric 
vehicle platforms. The manufacturing 
facility at Shendra shall provide the 
Company a competitive advantage 
to tap into high-value opportunities in 
the EV segment. The AURIC Shendra 
facility have specialised finishing 
processes that remain integral to 
attracting 
marquee 
international 
customers.
Endurance is establishing new manufacturing 
unit in AURIC in the Bidkin region. The 
objective of the new plant is to increase the 
alloy wheel production to meet the growing 
demand. The proposed capacity for the 
plant is 3.6 million wheels per annum. 
Further to this, the AURIC Bidkin plant, 
along with high two-wheelers production 
and the import substitution, is anticipated 
to accelerate the demand for domestic alloy 
wheels.
In April 2025, Endurance acquired a 60% 
stake in Stöferle Automotive GmbH 
and Stöferle GmbH, Germany, further 
expanding its European footprint. These 
new step-down subsidiaries specialise in 
highly automated machining of complex 
aluminium die castings for automotive 
engine and transmission components, as 
well as the production of CNC machines 
for captive use.
Component checking at the alloy wheel plant in Bidkin, Chh Sambhajinagar 
67 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
Key business operations undertaken in FY 2024-25
•	
Endurance Overseas, the Company’s wholly-owned 
subsidiary in Italy acquired 100% of stake in Ingenia 
Automation Srl, Italy.
•	
Endurance Overseas signed a Share Purchase 
Agreement to acquire a 60% share in Stöferle 
Automotive GmbH and Stöferle GmbH, both based 
in Germany, with a strategic intent to reach 100%. 
The acquisition of Stöferle entities and Ingenia 
enabled the Company to attain in-house machine-
building and automation prowess.
•	
Expansion in Waluj/Patnagar for EV, petrol, and 
CNG motorcycle models of an Indian OEM.
•	
The Company signed an agreement with a 
Korean Company for 4-wheeler suspensions and 
strut manufacturing.
•	
The Company is expanding its capacity in Waluj 
(Maharashtra) and Kolar (Karnataka) to fulfil a large 
scooter front fork order for a Japanese OEM.
•	
The Company is installing its capacity in AURIC, 
Shendra, Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar for four-
wheeler and non-auto machined aluminium castings.
Segment wise performance 
Casting business
Aluminium die casting and machining
As India’s largest aluminium die casting entity, the Company has 
strong presence in the die casting and machining business across 
2-wheelers, 3-wheelers and 4-wheelers, supported by a diverse 
product portfolio and advanced manufacturing capabilities. The 
adoption of cutting-edge technologies and the use of in-house 
tools have further strengthened its position as a key market player. 
Endurance continues to enhance its technical expertise to effectively 
meet changing market demands.
New product development
Endurance consistently introduces new products to enhance cost efficiency, performance, durability and overall quality. These efforts 
are guided by a thorough analysis of market trends and evolving customer requirements. The Company's robust infrastructure, 
including advanced design tools, virtual validation, Computer-Aided Engineering (CAE) analysis and in-house testing facilities, 
supports continuous innovation and strengthens its product portfolio.
During the reported year, the Company introduced new products such as 4W driveshafts and dual channel ABS modulator. In addition, 
the Company used unique Adler motorcycle clutch technology to tailor its products to the needs of Indian markets. The Company 
developed a differentiated assist-and-slip clutch that combines performance, durability and affordability for mass market segments. 
The Company also obtained final approvals for the APTC EVO clutch system across multiple motorcycle models from 150cc-500cc.
Business overview
Product wise performance in FY 2024-25
Transmission
Transmission
Suspension
Suspension
Die casting
Die casting
After market 
After market 
Alloy wheels 
Alloy wheels 
Disc brake 
Others
Others
Disc brake 
4.0
4.6
25.5
25.5
42.4
11.7
3.7
3.3
7.6
7.6
5.3
5.1
11.2
42.5
Total revenue  
generated in  
FY 2024-25 (%)
Total revenue 
generated in 
FY 2023-24 (%)
•	
The Company is increasing its capacity 
for manufacturing 2W alloy wheels by 
setting up a plant in AURIC Bidkin, 
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar.
•	
During the reported year, the Company 
increased its equity shareholding in subsidiary 
Maxwell, increasing it from 56% to 61.5%.
68  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
Proprietary Business
Suspension
Braking systems
Endurance is a market leader in high-performance suspension 
systems for two-wheeler, three-wheeler and quadricycles in India. 
It designs, develops and manufactures both adjustable and 
non-adjustable damping force inverted front forks and mono-
shock absorbers for global markets. As backward integration, 
the Company has installed aluminium forging presses. The 
forging plant has also secured orders from reputed Indian and 
overseas customers.
Performance of Suspension in FY 2024-25
During the reported year, the Company won orders for 
suspension worth  H 2,351 million, including inverted front 
forks for two major two-wheeler OEM’s, and a global 2W OEM 
featuring tension and rebound adjustment. The Company 
entered a technical assistance agreement with a leading 
Korean suspension manufacturer to develop four-wheeler shock 
absorbers and struts. It also completed plant audits with major 
Indian and global OEMs for light commercial vehicles (LCVs) and 
medium commercial vehicles (MCVs). Significant sales growth 
was achieved at the Narsapura plant in Karnataka, with an 80% 
projected year-on-year increase driven by new orders from 
major two-wheeler OEMs, supported by capacity additions and 
de-bottlenecking efforts. Furthermore, in the non-auto space, 
the Company is developing solar dampers for a Spanish client.
Endurance maintains a dominant market position in high-
performance braking systems for two-wheeler and three-
wheeler, known for delivering reliable, customer-specific 
solutions. It was the first in India to design and manufacture 
brake systems with split-type calipers as well as integral calipers 
and fixed-type calipers. 
Performance of Braking systems in FY 2024-25
The Company's braking systems showed a positive growth, 
which was supported by ongoing efforts to improve capabilities. 
In FY 2024-25, the Company secured  H 2,366 million in new 
orders from major two-wheeler OEMs, expanding brake 
offerings for 100 cc to 990 cc two-wheeler platforms, including 
dual-channel ABS orders. The Company is constructing a new 
building at the E-71 brakes plant in Chh. Sambhajinagar, for 
two-wheeler disc brakes, reinforcing its market leadership. Cost 
competitiveness improved through in-house production of 
ABS valves and steel braided hoses, with plans to manufacture 
printed circuit boards at Waluj. Additionally, the Company 
initiated development of advanced braking systems for a major 
four-wheeler OEM and expanded premium brake offerings for 
high-performance two-wheeler.
Performance of Aluminium die casting and machining in 
FY 2024-25
In FY 2024-25, the Company secured new casting orders worth 
H 6.1 billion across two-wheeler, three-wheeler, and four-wheeler 
and non-automotive segments, including  H 2.75 billion for the 
AURIC Shendra plant, with start of production (SOP) scheduled 
for September 2025. The Company leveraged its new European 
subsidiary, Ingenia, to drive automation at the Shendra plant. It also 
expanded capacity at Chakan by commissioning a fully automated 
machining line and upgrading four die casting cells
Torqueing operation at the suspension plant, Chh. Sambhajinagar
Transmission
Endurance is a well-known player in transmission systems for 
two-wheeler and three-wheeler, with strong expertise in design, 
development and manufacturing. For motorcycles, the Company 
produces cork based and paper based clutches and also offers 
the latest assist-and-slip 'Adler' technlogy clutches. For three-
wheeler, the Company produces clutches and driveshafts, the 
later being also offered for four-wheeler end use.
Final inspection of rear-caliper assembly at the disc-brake plant,  
Chh. Sambhajinagar.
69 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
EV and hybrid
Aftermarket
Endurance has expanded its presence in the electric two-wheeler 
and three-wheeler and four-wheeler business segments.
Performance of EV and hybrid in FY 2024-25
In FY 2024-25, the Company secured EV orders worth 
H 4,390 million, contributing to a cumulative EV order book of 
H 10,200 million, with 37% of FY 2024-25 orders dedicated to EV 
applications. The performance of the EV and hybrid segment 
remained strong throughout the reported year, supported by 
robust profitability and integration of advanced technologies. 
The Company’s aftermarket operations play a strategically 
vital role, fostering customer trust and promoting long-term 
brand engagement.
Performance of Aftermarket in FY 2024-25
Aftermarket sales witnessed a growth of 9.9%, increasing from 
H 4,609 million in FY 2023-24 to H 5,063 million in FY 2024-25, 
contributing 6% to the domestic income. During FY 2024-25, 
the Company expanded its penetration to 213 districts with 442 
distributors in India, and extended its international footprint 
to 39 countries. 
During the year under review, Endurance embarked on a special 
project in consultation with a top global consultancy firm. 
Through this collaboration, Endurance aims to increase market 
penetration, launch new products, strengthen merchandising, 
boost exports, and grow its four-wheeler product segment, all in 
pursuit of achieving targeted growth within the next two years.
Subsidiaries
Performance of Indian subsidiary in FY 2024-25
Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited
Endurance acquired a 51% share in Maxwell Energy Systems 
Private Limited in FY 2022-23, subsequently increasing it to 
61.5% till FY 2024-25.This subsidiary is present in advanced 
electronics, particularly in the battery management system for 
low voltage/high voltage EVs in the two-wheeler, three-wheeler 
and tractor segments. During the year under review, Maxwell 
received orders valued at an estimated  H 0.6 billion. Further to 
this, during the reported year, the loss was  H 168 million. Maxwell 
generated a total income of  H 0.70 billion, reflecting a year-on-
year growth of 10.9%. 
International subsidiaries 
Performance of International subsidiaries in FY 2024-25 
In FY 2024-25, the Company's international subsidiaries' growth 
was directed by outstanding business leadership, robust financial 
management and prudent investments. These subsidiaries 
achieved strong growth in sales, profitability and order intake.
Endurance Overseas Spa
Endurance Overseas SpA (‘EoSpA’) is the Company’s wholly-
owned subsidiary in Italy, established as a Special Purpose 
Vehicle for strategic overseas investments. The Company now 
holds 100% of EoSpA’s share capital, following the buy-back 
of a 5% stake previously held by Endurance GmbH, another 
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company based in Germany, for 
€ 8.5 million. This transaction streamlined the Group’s control 
structure. EoSpA is engaged in providing management support 
services to other European Group entities, centralising critical 
functions for strategic efficiency. During FY 2024-25, Endurance 
Overseas transitioned from a Srl to a SpA legal structure.
In FY 2024-25, EoSpA reported a total income of € 12.3 million, 
compared to € 8.5 million in the previous year. Profit after tax 
witnessed an increase to € 12.6 million from € 8.3 million. This was 
driven by higher dividends from Italian subsidiaries (€ 13 million 
compared to € 9 million in FY 2024). EoSpa inked the acquisition 
of 60% stake in Stoferle Automotive GmbH and Stoferle GmbH.
Endurance GmbH
Endurance GmbH (‘EGmbH’) is a wholly owned German 
subsidiary that manufactures high- pressure die-casting and 
machining components. The subsidiary serves major automotive 
OEMs in Germany.
Visual control on stator housing at Endurance SpA plant, Italy.
Performance of Transmission in FY 2024-25
The Company won new clutch orders from major two-wheeler 
OEMs in FY 2024-25, increasing annual clutch assembly sales by 
1 million units. The driveshaft business expanded with orders 
from three 3 three-wheeler OEMs and a leading four-wheeler 
OEM, reaching full capacity utilisation at Waluj and initiating 
plans for capacity augmentation in FY 2025-26. Additionally, the 
Company also localised assist and slip clutch technology from a 
European subsidiary for Indian OEMs to enhance market share, 
value-add and increase profitability.
70  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
In FY 2024-25, EGmbH reported a 9.6% increase in total income 
to € 60.6 million, compared to € 55.3 million in the previous year. 
Profit after tax improved to € 2.0 million from € 0.7 million. The 
performance was fuelled by the gain on disposal of investments 
offset by lower incomes on sale of tooling, higher energy cost 
(due to fixed term agreements) and the provision of redundancy 
costs (for € 0.4 million) for the implementation of a reorganisation 
and recovery plan.
Endurance SpA
Endurance SpA (‘ESpA’), a step-down operating subsidiary in 
Italy, specialises in high-pressure die-casting and machining 
components for the automotive sector, encompassing engine, 
gearbox, transmission parts and assembled metallic components 
made from aluminium alloys, cast iron and steel.
In FY 2024-25, ESpA reported an increase of 26.6% in total 
income to € 202.4 million, up from € 159.9 million in FY 2023-24. 
Profit after tax increased by 40.8% to € 14.2 million, compared 
to € 10.1 million in the previous year. A profit margin of 7.0% 
(up from 6.3%) was achieved. This improvement was propelled 
by volume augmentation of high-value parts. Energy prices 
remained elevated compared to pre-2021 levels (with electricity 
at 170% and gas 210% above historical costs), savings from 
operational solar panels installed in the prior year contributed 
to cost efficiencies. Additionally, ESpA also benefitted from 
tax allowances due to higher depreciation on technologically 
advanced machinery. 
During the year, ESpA secured new orders worth € 20 million 
(in terms of yearly turnover at regime) from various car 
manufacturers, primarily for powertrain components with start of 
production expected in FY 2025-26.
Endurance Engineering Srl
Endurance Engineering Srl (‘EEsrl’), based in Italy, is a step-down 
operating subsidiary that manufactures plastic components for 
automotive and other applications.
During FY 2024-25, EEsrl’s total income decreased by 19.9% to 
€ 10.0 million from € 12.5 million in the previous year, primarily 
due to the phasing out of a key customer. This was not fully 
offset by new customer relationships. Profit after tax remained 
stable at €0.8 million, supported by production reorganisation 
efforts that maintained profitability despite lower sales.
Endurance Castings SpA
Endurance Castings SpA (‘ECSpA’) is a step-down operating 
subsidiary in Italy, specialising in high-pressure die-casting and 
machining components.
In FY 2024-25, ECSpA reported a 14.6% increase in total income 
to € 46.9 million, from both captive and non-captive customers, 
as compared to € 40.9 million in the previous year. Profit after tax 
increased to € 1.9 million from € 0.7 million. This was primarily 
due to higher turnover driven by captive sales to ESpA. ECSpA 
secured new orders from non-captive customers worth € 3.9 
million (in terms of yearly turnover at regime), with start of 
production primarily in FY 2024-25.
Endurance Two Wheelers SpA
Endurance Two Wheelers SpA (‘E2WSpA’), a step-down 
operating subsidiary in Italy, was formed through the merger of 
Frenotecnica Srl and New Fren Srl into Endurance Adler SpA, to 
consolidate our European two-wheeler operations. Endurance 
Adler SpA was subsequently renamed Endurance Two Wheelers 
SpA, effective 1st January, 2025. 
E2WSpA specialises in manufacturing clutches, brake systems, 
metal-rubber components, brake pads, discs, centrifugal 
clutches and brake shoes for two-wheeler vehicles in the 
OEM, aftermarket and replacement markets. The merger also 
led to consolidated operations, with the former Frenotecnica 
manufacturing plant relocated to the restructured Endurance 
Adler premises.
In FY 2024-25, E2WSpA reported a total income of € 16.9 million 
and a profit after tax of € 0.6 million. Compared to a total income 
of € 9.9 million for the previous year and a profit after tax of 
€ 0.4 million as standalone Company and a total income of € 19.6 
million and a profit after tax of € 0.9 million, in terms of proforma 
data of the combined companies, for the previous year. 
Veicoli Srl
Veicoli Srl (‘Veicoli’) is Endurance’s Italian step-down subsidiary 
engaged in providing fleet management services through its 
application platform. During FY 2024-25, Veicoli recorded a total 
income of € 2.2 million, compared to € 1.3 million of the previous 
year. Profit after tax doubled to € 0.4 million from € 0.2 million.
The Company continued to prioritise customer acquisition and 
portfolio expansion.
Ingenia Automation Srl
Ingenia Automation Srl (‘Ingenia’), the new step-down operating 
subsidiary in Italy, specialises in industrial automation. Acquired 
in May 2024 by Endurance Overseas SpA for € 3.0 million (€ 2.2 
million paid, with € 0.8 million deferred to 2026 and 2027). The 
purchase price will be subject to an increase up to maximum 
€ 0.6 million in case of achievement of certain defined commercial 
targets. Ingenia collaborates closely with other group companies 
to enhance the Group’s automation expertise.
In FY 2024-25, since its acquisition, Ingenia contributed € 8.6 
million in total income from captive and non-captive transactions 
and a profit after tax of € 0.2 million.
Stöferle GmbH and Stöferle Automotive GmbH
Stöferle GmbH and Stöferle Automotive GmbH, acquired on 2nd 
April, 2025, are newly integrated step-down subsidiaries based 
in Germany. They specialise in highly automated machining of 
complex aluminium die castings for automotive engine and 
transmission components, as well as the production of CNC 
machines for captive use. 
71 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
2,20,000
Trees planted 
Human resources
Human resources are critical to the Company's long-term 
growth. The Company's HR initiatives aim to attract and retain 
a highly skilled and motivated workers by offering a positive 
and safe work environment. Moreover, the Company supports 
continuous development through relevant tools and upskilling 
opportunities, ensuring its employees’ skills and knowledge 
stay aligned with evolving industry standards.
Strategic Connect- Board and senior leadership in Europe 
Leadership development and capacity building
Developing future leaders from within the organisation is a 
key strategic priority for Endurance. The Company’s evolving 
learning and development framework focuses on strengthening 
internal capabilities and preparing employees for future 
leadership roles.
Initiatives undertaken by the Company to build the next line 
of leaders 
 
 
Finding high-potential individuals within the Company, 
assisting them in redefining their potential, and improving 
their managerial and leadership abilities. 
 
 
By introducing the Endurance Youth Leadership 
programme (EYLP), staff members are exposed to 
different fields and are motivated to develop their skills. 
 
 
Employees talents and behavioural competencies 
were enhanced by the managerial effectiveness 
programme, which helped them become more capable 
managers and leaders.
Developing a high-performance culture and driving 
employee engagement
The Company fosters a high-performance culture built on 
its core CITTI values. These values guide everyday decisions 
and behaviours, shaping a positive employee experience and 
reinforcing the Company’s reputation as a globally trusted 
brand. To strengthen engagement and loyalty, Endurance 
adopts sustainable practices each year based on the feedback 
received from its annual employee engagement survey.
Quality and productivity focus
The Company’s Central Quality Department maintains the 
highest standards to ensure product consistency and excellence 
across all operations. Its state-of-the-art manufacturing 
facilities are equipped with advanced technologies, enabling 
the delivery of high-quality, cost-effective products that meet 
customer expectations. By leveraging digital tools, enhancing 
sourcing 
strategies 
and 
continuously 
improving 
quality 
systems, the Company ensures reliable performance and 
operational efficiency. 
A strong focus on Quality, Cost, Delivery, Development and 
Management (QCDDM) continues to be vital in sustaining its 
leadership in the market. Product ‘VAVE’ was undertaken to 
improve the quality of product offerings and also reduce the 
part weight, especially for die casting components. Additionally, 
new technologies and process automations are implemented to 
enhance product quality and productivity.
Environment sustainability 
Endurance is committed to minimising its environmental impact 
by adopting best-in-class sustainability practices. Some of the 
activities included ecological restoration, renewable energy 
adoption and water conservation. Additionally, dense forest 
creation to establishing solar energy infrastructure, enhancing 
water retention capacity and sustainable agricultural practices 
were undertaken during the reported year. Further, the Company 
is also working on a net zero target in collaboration with CII, 
aligned with SBTi guidelines.
Stöferle Automotive GmbH, Germany
72  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
Work-life balance
Endurance seeks to promote a culture that values balance and 
prioritises employee well-being. The organisation believes that 
taking time off is crucial for maintaining both physical and mental 
health and actively encourages practices that help employees to 
stay motivated.
Initiatives undertaken to promote work-life balance within 
the organisation
 
 
Encouraging regular leaves to support both physical and 
mental well-being 
 
 
Opportunities for family interaction where family members 
of the employee can visit the plants
 
 
Providing a hotline number for staff members to help 
them overcome obstacles
Employee engagement
The Company believes in building and sustaining a high-
performance culture, anchored in CITTI values. 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI)
Diversity is a strategic priority for Endurance, developing a 
sustainable competitive advantage through a diverse workplace. 
During the reported year, the Company celebrated Women's 
Day and Diversity Week, fostering an environment where every 
individual feels valued and respected. 
Students attend class at a renovated school in Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS)
The EHS and sustainability-first culture of the Company, 
consistently prioritises human lives, environment, health, 
safety and sustainability at the forefront of its decisions. The 
Company enforces zero tolerance for unsafe acts and non-
compliances, facilitated by its strong management policy. 
The EHS team oversees all material changes, expansions and 
greenfield/brownfield projects, ensuring compliance with safety 
management. The Company focuses on developing contractors 
in hazard identification, risk assessment, training and emergency 
readiness. During the reported year, Yoga Day, Sports Day and 
de-addiction camps were conducted to promote employee 
well-being and physical fitness. Moreover, the Company also 
launched ‘Endurance Health Benefit Plan’ in collaboration with 
a leading health‑tech platform to support employee well-being.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
CSR is a strategic priority for Endurance. The Company is 
committed to reducing inequity—transforming communities, 
inspiring children, and empowering individuals to achieve 
their full potential. Through its efforts, the Company is able to 
support individuals and communities in gaining independent 
and realise their full potential. The Company implements a 
holistic approach towards community development to address 
complex issues by driving initiatives across education, health 
and sanitation, livelihood generation and environmental 
stewardship. This enables it to deliver a lasting impact in the 
communities. Endurance comprehends the requirements of the 
community, centres the initiatives based on the needs of the 
community and gets the support from the stakeholders to ensure 
the sustainability of the initiatives. Endurance is determined to 
equip individuals with the right skills, tools and resources to 
enable them to thrive and create a sustainable change in their 
communities for future generations.
Voluntary Separation Scheme
The Company announced a Voluntary Separation Scheme (“VSS”) 
for all its eligible permanent workmen at its plant located at L-6/3 
(LPDC), MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Dist. Chh. Sambhajinagar, 
Maharashtra, to right-size the plant in line with the production 
volumes, on 10th February, 2025.  57 employees opted for the 
VSS, leading to one-time outgo of H 106.35 million. Separation 
compensation was paid to the said employees on 17th April, 2025. 
73 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
3
Schools renovated with toilets for boys and girls
100%
On-grid rooftop solar was provided to a village in 
Chh. Sambhajinagar
32
Individual toilets constructed 
167
Students inspired for 100% attendance 
4,850	
Patients treated through mobile clinics
Health and Sanitation
Health is a basic human right. Recognising this, Endurance 
is driving health and hygiene initiatives in villages around 
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar. These initiatives encompass the 
installation of RO plants to ensure access to clean drinking 
water. Further, the Company is renovating government hospitals 
to augment access for communities, building toilets, organising 
health check-ups and surgeries, providing rehab to alcoholics 
and conducting yoga sessions. Endurance is focused on 
improving women’s health, particularly addressing stigmatised 
facets of menstrual health and family planning. These efforts have 
a positive ripple effect, transforming families and communities.
Livelihood
Endurance is committed to empowering individuals, especially 
women, to fulfil their dreams. The Company works with women 
in villages to comprehend their interests, develop their skills, 
provide them with loans to start their businesses and guide 
them through their journey. ECOVE, a vocational training 
centre, works with individuals from remand homes, orphans and 
individuals who fail to recognise their own value. The Company 
equips them with skills to enable them to achieve financial 
independence and start understanding and capitalising on their 
special abilities. Over 200 candidates have graduated from this 
centre with degrees in tailoring, computer science, machine 
maintenance, die-casting, electrical and retail.
Environment
Safeguarding the environment is a crucial aspect of community 
development. Endurance believes in investing in renewable 
sources of energy, prioritising solar energy generation and 
promoting rainwater harvesting. The Company has installed 
solar power generation units and solar streetlights in 3 villages 
and initiated several rainwater harvesting projects. In addition, 
the Company has de-silted ponds, deepened waterways and 
created reservoirs. To improve access to clean drinking water, 
the Company has laid pipelines to supply water to underserved 
villages. Endurance believes in sustainable farming and 
continues to train farmers in hydro-phonics and drip irrigation, 
while providing mangers saving over 40% fodder. The Company 
has developed several dense forests as part of its sustainability 
initiatives. During the year under review, the Company had 
planted over 2.20 lakh native saplings across 22.5 acres in three 
villages, featuring 63 local species to regenerate biodiversity 
and create green community assets.
Dense forest developed by the Company at Mamnabad,  
Chh. Sambhajinagar
Education
Every child deserves to reach her or his full potential. However, 
gender inequalities in communities hinder this reality. The 
Company envisions a society where all children are encouraged 
to be aspirational and not made to feel guilty for chasing their 
dreams. The Company undertakes a wide range of initiatives 
to enable children achieve their potential. Endurance enables 
access to schools by renovating schools with libraries and 
computer labs, providing bicycles, initiates e-learning to 
enhance effectiveness by training teachers and inspiring children 
with interactive workshops on life skills and child rights.
74  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
•	
Endurance's EV-agnostic product portfolio positions 
it to benefit from the rapid adoption of EVs and may 
offer further potential for growth through targeted 
investments in EV centric products.
•	
A strong global presence can help the Company to 
capitalise on new markets and diversify revenue streams.
•	
Adoption of advanced technologies may enhance the 
Company's product portfolio, boost manufacturing 
efficiency and improve customer satisfaction.
•	
The rising demand for automobiles, supported by 
increased consumer spending following tax relief in 
Budget 2025-26, could present a growth opportunity.
•	
Ongoing infrastructure development is expected to 
increase demand for automobile, indirectly increasing 
the need for Endurance's products.
 
 
Legislative changes focused on vehicle safety and 	 	
	
sustainability could expand the addressable market.
• 	
Global 
economic 
instability, 
including 
tarrifs, 
geopolitical tensions and regional slowdowns, may 
disrupt Endurance’s international operations.
 • 	
Competition from industry players could lead to 
pricing pressure, affecting the Company’s margins and 
operational efficiency.
• 	
Operating in a tightly regulated industry, Endurance is 
exposed to risks from abrupt changes in safety, emission 
and quality standards, which could impact its operations 
and compliance efforts.
Opportunities and threats
Financial results
Consolidated financial results
(H in million)
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Revenue from operations
115,608.10
102,408.71 
Other income
1,169.74
856.15
Total income
116,777.84
103,264.86
EBITDA
16,680.50
14,135.99
Profit before tax
10,947.11
8,969.48
Profit after tax
8,363.53
6,804.88
Cash flow from operations
15,316.87
10,570.87
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Trade receivables turnover (times)
8
8.1
Inventory Turnover (times)
11
11.3
ROE (%)
16.6
16.5
Current Ratio
2.6
2.6
Net Debt Equity Ratio (times)
(0.1)
(0.1)
Net Profit (%) 
7.6
7.4
ROCE (%)
22.2
22.1
Interest coverage ratio (No. of times)
461.0
333.3
Operating profit margin (%)
10.4
10.2
The key financial ratios – standalone
Opportunities
Threats
Internal Control Systems and their adequacy:  The Company has adequate internal financial control systems and details of the same 
are mentioned in the Board’s Report.
Company Outlook
Endurance is strategically positioning itself for future growth through global acquisitions, capacity expansion and technological 
advancement. It plans to cater to the four-wheeler market and is actively exploring partnership opportunities to offer products such 
as suspension and braking systems for four-wheelers. It aims to increase market penetration despite its strong presence in 2W/3W 
75 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion and Analysis (Contd..)
Risk name 
Risk description 
Mitigation strategy 
Economic risk
Fluctuations in the economic environment, 
including inflation or changes in interest rates, 
can impact the Company's operations and 
overall financial performance.
Recognising the potential impact of economic fluctuations 
on consumer spending in the automotive sector, Endurance 
has adopted an expansion-focused strategy. This includes 
broadening its product portfolio and extending its 
geographical footprint. The Company supplies a wide 
range of products to various OEMs and the aftermarket. Its 
strong brand reputation and robust customer relationships 
have further reinforced its competitive advantage.
Reputational 
risk
Failure to deliver on product strategy or to 
maintain a safe working environment or to 
comply with regulatory requirements can 
damage the Company’s reputation and 
weaken its position in the industry.
Endurance ensures sustainable production practices 
that adhere to safety standards and promote ethical 
labour practices. The Company also ensures compliance 
with industry regulations and collaborates with key 
stakeholders to retain its strong reputation in the industry.
Regulatory 
risk
The Company's operations are vulnerable to 
changes in trade policies, safety regulations, 
emission 
standards 
and 
government 
incentives, which can affect overall business 
performance and strategies.
The Company ensures complete compliance with 
the norms and regulations set by relevant regulatory 
authorities.
Customer 
concentration 
risk
Relying on specific consumers might impact 
the Company's revenue creation.
Reliance on specific customers is balanced by their 
reciprocal reliance on Endurance.
Information 
technology 
risk
Failure to maintain a strong and secure 
IT infrastructure, or any compromises on 
data privacy and security, could disrupt 
the Company's operations and damage its 
reputation.
Endurance has implemented essential software solutions 
to protect its information assets. Supported by ISO 
27001 accreditation, the Company maintains a robust 
Information Security Management System (ISMS) to 
mitigate IT-related risks.
Supply chain 
risk
Any disruption in the supply of raw materials 
or essential components can hinder the 
manufacturing process and affect the Company's 
ability to meet market demands effectively.
To ensure a steady supply of raw materials, the Company 
focuses on strengthening relationships with vendors. In 
addition, the Company prioritises indigenous sourcing 
and long-term contracts to enhance supply chain stability.
People risk
Attrition due to poor employee relations 
can negatively affect Endurance's long-term 
growth and damage its reputation in the 
industry.
Endurance has implemented effective HR policies that 
support the Company's success and employees' personal 
growth. These include providing relevant training, 
ensuring a positive work environment and recognising 
the contributions of its employees.
Financial risk
Maintaining financial stability is essential for 
the Company's long-term growth and success.
The Company's investment decisions are based on 
proper financial evaluations. Profitablility and returns are 
reviewed at plant and product level. There is focus on 
keeping operating and financial leverage at low levels.
Cautionary statement
This document contains some statements about expected future events, financial and operating results of Endurance Technologies 
Limited, which are forward-looking. By nature, forward-looking statements require the Company to make assumptions and are subject 
to inherent risks and uncertainties. There is significant risk that the assumptions, predictions and other forward-looking statements may 
not prove to be accurate. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a number of factors 
could cause assumptions, actual future results and events to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
components. Additionally, the establishment of a new manufacturing plant in Maharashtra is expected to boost the production of 
lithium-ion battery packs for electric mobility and energy storage systems in the coming years. 
Risk Management
The Company's risk management policy outlines a structured framework to identify, assess and mitigate risks that could impact 
business growth. The policy is tailored to the nature of the Company's operations and includes strategies to address potential threats. 
The Board oversees the risk management process, regularly reviews risk assessments and evaluates reports from internal auditors on 
risk management and internal controls.
Key risks and the mitigation strategies
76  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Board’s Report
Dear Shareholders,
Your Directors present herewith the Twenty Sixth Annual Report on the business and operations of the Company together with 
financial statements for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025.
SUMMARISED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS:
(H in million)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
Financial 
Year 2024-25
Financial 
Year 2023-24
Financial 
Year 2024-25
Financial 
Year 2023-24
Revenue from operations
88,461.48
78,710.00
115,608.10
102,408.71
Other income
665.82
494.71
1,169.74
856.15
Total income
89,127.30
79,204.71
116,777.84
103,264.86
Cost of material consumed*
57,284.51
51,407.05
66,031.17
60,505.73
Employee benefit expenses
4,357.76
3,801.24
10,073.49
8,798.97
Finance cost
25.62
29.94
468.11
426.58
Depreciation and amortisation expense
2,896.51
2,625.16
5,387.05
4,739.93
Other expenses
15,308.69
13,438.59
23,992.68
19,824.17
Total expenditure
79,873.09
71,301.98
105,952.50
94,295.38
Profit before exceptional items and tax 
9,254.21
7,902.73
10,825.34
8,969.48
Exceptional Items
173.59
-
(121.77)
-
Profit before tax 
9,080.62
7,902.73
10,947.11
8,969.48
Net tax expense
2,294.03
2,024.80
2,583.58
2,164.60
Net profit for the year
6,786.59
5,877.93
8,363.53
6,804.88
* This includes purchases of stock-in-trade (traded goods) and changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress.
DIVIDEND: 
The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 15th May, 2025, has 
recommended dividend of H 10 per equity share of face value 
H 10 each (@ 100%) (previous year H 8.50 per equity share), for the 
financial year 2024-25, for consideration of the Members at the 
ensuing Twenty Sixth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”).
The dividend, if approved by the Members, will result in an 
outgo of H 1,406.63 million.
The dividend pay-out is in accordance with the Company’s 
Dividend Distribution Policy.
Dividend Distribution Policy
This policy has been framed and adopted in terms of 
Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”). The 
policy, inter alia, lays down various parameters relating to 
declaration / recommendation of dividend. There has been no 
change to the policy during the financial year 2024-25.
The policy is placed on the Company’s website https://www.
endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Dividend-
Distribution-Policy.pdf. 
Transfer to reserves
The 
Company 
has 
not 
transferred 
any 
amount 
of 
profits to reserves.
INDUSTRY 
OVERVIEW 
AND 
COMPANY’S 
PERFORMANCE:
The Indian automobile industry witnessed a modest growth 
during the financial year 2024-25, driven by steady demand 
across segments, particularly in the two-wheeler and three-
wheeler sectors. The industry recorded a 11.1% growth in two-
wheeler sales, with 23.81 million units sold in the financial year 
2024-25, as compared to 21.43 million units in the previous 
financial year. Passenger vehicle sales grew 3.7% with 5.07 
million units sold in the financial year 2024-25 as compared to 
4.89 million units in the previous financial year. Three-wheeler 
sales registered a 5.4% growth in the financial year 2024-25 with 
1.05 million units sold in the financial year 2024-25, as compared 
to 0.99 million units in the previous financial year, continuing the 
positive trend.
India’s economic landscape supported this growth, with GDP 
growth for the financial year 2024-25 estimated at 6.5%, the Index 
of Industrial Production at 4.1%, and average inflation at 4.6%. 
The European automotive market, however, recorded a marginal 
contraction of 0.8% in new car sales in the financial year 2024-25. 
Against this backdrop, the Company delivered a strong 
performance, driven by its agility, innovation, and customer-
centric approach. During the year under review, the Company 
posted a total income of H 89,127.30 million on a standalone 
basis as against H 79,204.71 million in the previous financial year. 
The total income on a consolidated basis was H 116,777.84 
77 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report (Contd..)
million compared to H 103,264.86 million in the previous 
financial year. The Company’s total income on a standalone 
and consolidated basis grew by 12.5% and 13.1%, respectively, 
reflecting robust growth in India and a standout performance 
in Europe despite market challenges due to geo-political 
prevailing conditions. In the financial year 2024-25, 76% of the 
Company’s consolidated total income, including other income, 
came from Indian operations, and the balance 24% came from 
overseas operations.
The Company’s focus on operational excellence, cost optimisation, 
and product-mix improvement contributed to its profitability. The 
Company’s profit after tax grew by 15.5% in the financial year 
2024-25 at H 6,786.59 million as against H 5,877.93 million in the 
previous financial year, on a standalone basis; while consolidated 
profit after tax grew by 22.9% at H 8,363.53 million as against 
H 6,804.88 million in the previous financial year. 
The Company’s commitment to innovation and technology 
upgradation alongwith quality assurance and strong customer 
relationships enabled it to secure new business wins worth 
H 12,600 million from Original Equipment Manufacturers 
("OEMs") (excluding orders from one of its major OEM customer) 
in India and worth € 40.2 million in Europe. 
The Company received 16 new patent approvals and 26 new 
design registrations during the financial year 2024-25, taking the 
total patents to 91 and design registrations to 68. 
Looking ahead, the Company remains committed to its strategic 
priorities, including increasing its four-wheeler and aftermarket 
business share, expanding its presence in the premium bike 
segment, and capitalising on the growing EV opportunity. 
Acquisitions and Greenfield Expansions
During the financial year 2024-25 and as on the date of this 
Report, Endurance Overseas SpA (“EOSpA”), a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of the Company, acquired 100% stake in Ingenia 
Automation Srl ("Ingenia"), Italy, on 31st May, 2024. Ingenia 
specialises in industrial automation through robotics and 
advanced processes. Further, EOSpA, on 2nd April, 2025, acquired 
60% stake in Stöferle GmbH, Germany and Stöferle Automotive 
GmbH, Germany, entities specialised in the business of 
machining of aluminium castings for automotive application and 
production of CNC machines for captive use and manufacturing 
machined aluminium castings for automotive appliances. The 
acquisition of these entities have strengthened the Company’s 
European footprint. Additionally, the Company has entered into 
agreement for accelerated acquisition of the remaining 38.5% 
of equity stake in Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited to 
make it a wholly-owned subsidiary, strengthening its footprint in 
advanced electronics. 
The Company has initiated three greenfield projects viz. AURIC 
Shendra and AURIC Bidkin in Chh. Sambhajinagar, and Maval 
Taluka in Pune, Maharashtra. Shendra plant shall manufacture 
aluminium machined castings for four-wheelers as well as non-
auto. Bidkin plant shall manufacture alloy wheels which will 
nearly double the Company’s alloy wheel production capacity 
and the Maval plant is being set up to manufacture Lithium 
Ion battery packs of various configurations for battery energy 
storage systems suitable for mobility and other applications. 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
As per Regulation 33 of the Listing Regulations and Section 129 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with the rules made 
thereunder, consolidated financial statements of the Company 
for the financial year 2024-25 have been prepared in compliance 
with the applicable accounting standards. The audited financial 
statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (including 
step-down subsidiaries) have been approved by the board of 
directors of respective entities.
During the year under review, the Board of Directors reviewed 
the affairs of the subsidiary companies in accordance with 
Section 129(3) of the Act. Consolidated financial statements 
together with the statutory auditor’s report thereon form part of 
this Annual Report.
SUBSIDIARIES:
The Company has 12 subsidiaries as on the date of this Report, 
as tabulated below. Details of the subsidiary companies and 
their performance are detailed in the Management Discussion 
and Analysis Report, forming part of this Annual Report. 
 
Sr. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
Brief Particulars
1.
Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy (EOSpA)* 
Direct Subsidiary
Primary objective of this special purpose vehicle (SPV) in Italy is to make 
strategic overseas investments.
2.
Endurance SpA, Italy 
Step-down Subsidiary
Engaged in the activity of carrying out high pressure aluminium die 
casting and machining operations from its plants in Lombardore and 
Chivasso, Italy.
3.
Endurance Engineering Srl, Italy. 
Step-down Subsidiary
Engaged in the production of plastic components, inter alia, for 
automotive applications from its plant in Grugliasco, Italy.
4.
Endurance Castings SpA, Italy 
Step-down Subsidiary
Primarily engaged in manufacturing of high pressure die casting and 
machining components having a plant in Bione, Italy.
5.
Endurance Two Wheelers SpA, Italy** 
Step-down Subsidiary
The company is having plants in Rovereto and Turin, Italy and 
manufactures clutches and braking systems for two-wheeler vehicles.
78  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Board’s Report (Contd..)
 
Sr. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
Brief Particulars
6.
Veicoli Srl, Italy 
Step-down Subsidiary
The company offers a software platform to companies that operate fleets 
of commercial and passenger vehicles. It operates from Turin, Italy.
7.
GDS Sarl, Hammas Sousse, Tunisia^ 
Step-down Subsidiary
The company is a subsidiary of Endurance Two Wheelers SpA (earlier, 
it was subsidiary of New Fren Srl**) with its manufacturing facility in 
Hammas Sousse, Tunisia. 
8.
Endurance GmbH, Germany 
Direct Subsidiary
The company is primarily engaged in the manufacturing of high pressure 
die casting and machining components with plants in Massenbachhausen, 
Germany.
9.
Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited, India 
(“Maxwell”)^^ 
Direct Subsidiary
The company is located in Mumbai, Maharashtra, India^^ and it is 
into the business of advanced embedded electronics for Battery 
Management System for EVs.
10.
Ingenia Automation Srl, Italy*** 
Step-down Subsidiary
The company is located in Italy and it operates in the design, production 
and robotics installation of industrial automation systems.
11.
Stöferle GmbH, (Laupheim, Germany)^^^ 
Step-down Subsidiary
The company is located in Germany and it is into the business of 
machining of aluminium castings for automotive application and 
production of CNC machines for captive use.
12.
Stöferle Automotive GmbH, (Laupheim, 
Germany)^^^ 
Step-down Subsidiary
The company is located in Germany and it is in the business of 
manufacturing machined aluminium castings for automotive applications.
* Endurance Overseas Srl, Italy has converted its status from ‘limited liability’ company to a ‘public limited’ company w.e.f. 20th January, 2025, thereby changing 
its name to Endurance Overseas SpA (“EOSpA”). 
EOSpA has on 14th March, 2025, bought back 5% of its equity shares held by Endurance GmbH, Germany. 
** Scheme of Merger of New Fren Srl, Italy and Frenotecnica Srl, Italy with Endurance Adler SpA, came into effect from 1st January, 2025. Further, by virtue of the 
aforesaid scheme, the name of Endurance Adler SpA was subsequently changed to Endurance Two Wheelers SpA, Italy, and GDS Sarl, subsidiary of New Fren Srl 
became the subsidiary of Endurance Two Wheelers, SpA. 
*** EOSpA acquired 100% stake in Ingenia Automation Srl, Italy, on 31st May, 2024. 
^ Shareholders of GDS Sarl have passed a resolution, on 23rd September, 2024, for its voluntary liquidation and that the same is under process.
^^ Maxwell is in the process of shifting its registered office from Mumbai to Pune.
^^^ EOSpA acquired 60% stake in Stöferle GmbH and Stöferle Automotive GmbH, on 2nd April, 2025.
In July 2024, the Company had acquired additional 5.5% stake in 
Maxwell thereby increasing its shareholding to 61.5%, through 
secondary purchase, for an aggregate value of H 7,535 for 7,535 
equity shares of face value H 1 each. 
Subsequently, on 8th May, 2025, the Company entered into a 
Share Purchase Agreement with existing shareholders to acquire 
the remaining 38.5% stake in Maxwell, for 52,749 equity shares 
of face value H 1 each, through secondary purchase, for an 
aggregate value of H 75.01 million. 
With acquisition of this additional 38.5% stake in Maxwell, it shall 
become the Wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company. 
There has been no material change in the nature of business of 
the subsidiaries. 
Associate Company: 
As on 31st March, 2025, and as on the date of this Report, the 
Company has one associate company, TP Green Nature Limited 
(“TP Green”), in which the Company holds 11,966,298 equity 
shares (including 5,381,810 equity shares acquired through rights 
issue, during the year under review) of H 10 each being 26% of its 
paid-up equity share capital. TP Green is an ‘associate company’ 
of the Company, in terms of Section 2(6) of the Act. However, 
the Company does not exercise any ‘significant influence’ 
in the management of its business affairs nor has any rights / 
obligations, except as its shareholder. Therefore, financial 
statements of TP Green are not required to be considered for 
consolidation in terms of Section 129 of the Act.
TP Green is a special purpose vehicle incorporated by Tata 
Power Renewable Energy Limited and is engaged in the 
business of solar power generation with a capacity of 12.5 MW. 
This investment enables the Company to qualify itself as a 
captive consumer as per the captive mechanism rules under the 
Electricity Act, 2003 for procuring solar energy from TP Green 
for its certain manufacturing plants located in Chakan and 
Waluj, Maharashtra. 
In terms of Section 129(3) of the Act, a statement in Form AOC-
1, containing salient features of the financial statements of the 
Company’s subsidiaries, forms part of the Annual Report. A copy 
of the audited financial statements of each of the subsidiary 
companies and English translation thereof will be available for 
inspection by any shareholder of the Company at its registered 
79 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report (Contd..)
office, during business hours. These financial statements 
are also placed on the Company’s website at https://www.
endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Annual-
Report-of-Subsidiary-Companies-for-FY-2024-25.pdf. 
SHARE CAPITAL:
The paid-up equity share capital of the Company as on 31st 
March, 2025, was H 1,406,628,480. During the year under review, 
there has been no change in authorised, issued, subscribed 
and paid up share capital, including any reclassification or 
sub-division thereto. The Company has not issued shares 
with differential voting rights, sweat equity shares, neither 
has it granted any employee stock options nor has issued any 
convertible securities. 
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL:
Changes in Directorate and Key Managerial Personnel
Following were the changes in the Board of Directors ("the 
Board") during the year under review and till the date 
of this Report:
i.	
The term of appointment of Mr. Satrajit Ray as the Whole-
time Director and Group Chief Financial Officer and Mr. 
Ramesh Gehaney as the Whole-time Director and Chief 
Operating Officer of the Company, was up to 5th June, 2024. 
	
Mr. Ray and Mr. Gehaney superannuated as the Whole-time 
Directors of the Company with effect from 5th June, 2024. 
	
Mr. Ray has continued as a Non-executive Director of the 
Company effective 6th June, 2024.
ii.	
Mr. Rajendra Abhange was appointed as an additional 
director, designated as Director and Chief Operating 
Officer of the Company by the Board in its meeting held 
on 16th May, 2024, to succeed Mr. Gehaney, for a term 
of five years effective 6th June, 2024. His appointment as 
Director as well as the Whole-time Director was regularised 
/ approved by the Members of the Company in the Twenty 
Fifth AGM held on 23rd August, 2024.
iii.	
The Board, at its meeting held on 16th May, 2024, appointed 
Mr. R. S. Raja Gopal Sastry as Group Chief Financial Officer 
to succeed Mr. Ray as the Group Chief Financial Officer 
and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company, effective 
6th June, 2024. 
iv.	
Mr. Roberto Testore, Independent Director of the Company, 
expressed his unwillingness to continue as an Independent 
Director on the Board, citing personal reasons and other 
professional commitments. He stepped down as the 
director of the Company from the close of business hours 
of 31st August, 2024. 
v.	
On the recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee of the Company, the Board 
of Directors at its meeting held on 13th August, 2024, 
appointed Mr. Alfredo Altavilla as an additional director 
(in the capacity of an Independent Director) effective 1st 
September, 2024. The Members of the Company approved 
the appointment of Mr. Altavilla through postal ballot 
conducted through remote e-voting, which concluded on 
28th September, 2024.
vi.	
On the recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee of the Company, the Board 
at its meeting held on 15th May, 2025, appointed Mrs. 
Dipali Sheth as an additional director (in the capacity of 
an Independent Director) effective from 1st August, 2025, 
subject to approval of the Members of the Company.
vii.	
Mrs. Varsha Jain is proposed to be re-appointed as Director 
and Head – CSR and Facility Management effective 10th 
November, 2025, subject to approval of the Members 
of the Company.
viii.	 Mr. Indrajit Banerjee is proposed to be re-appointed as 
Independent Director of the Company for a second term 
effective 9th February, 2026, subject to approval of the 
Members of the Company.
ix.	
Mr. Anurang Jain is proposed to be re-appointed as 
Managing Director of the Company effective 1st April, 2026, 
subject to approval of the Members of the Company.
Brief profile of the directors being appointed / re-
appointed during the year under review and till the date 
of this Report, is given below: 
Mrs. Dipali Sheth
a.	
Key qualifications:
	
BA Economics (Honours).
b.	
Broad experience:
	
Mrs. Sheth has a career spanning around three decades. 
She holds a Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Economics from 
the University of Delhi. She has expertise in Strategy, 
Human Resources, Marketing, Sales, Distribution, Mergers 
& 
Acquisitions 
("M&A"), 
transformational 
growth, 
restructuring and organisational growth domestically, 
internationally and expansion especially for companies 
in India, South East Asia, United Kingdom and Middle 
Eastern regions. She has worked for private sector banks, 
FMCG companies and a reputed University. She served 
as Country Head of Human Resources at the Royal Bank 
of Scotland ("RBS"), India and contributed significantly 
towards integrating ABN Amro Bank into the RBS 
systems and culture, building leadership, people and 
organisational strategy and set up target operating models 
and divestment of the bank in India. She has worked with 
Standard Chartered Bank (“SCB”) in Learning, Talent 
Acquisition and Global Strategy. Her last role in SCB was 
HR Head South Asia where she supervised HR across South 
Asia, led growth of the Wholesale Bank and gained valuable 
strategy and change experience in several acquisitions, 
80  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Board’s Report (Contd..)
viz. SCB acquisitions of the Grindlays and the American 
Express. Prior to working at SCB, she worked with Procter 
& Gamble India Limited (“P&G”) for six years, where she 
was the first woman leader to be hired in Sales. At P&G, 
she contributed to Marketing, Sales and Training functions. 
	
She also helped build the vision and growth of Ashoka 
University, Sonipat, Haryana. At Ashoka, she also worked 
with Centre for Social Impact Planning and Centre for 
Social and Behavioural Change. She is an alumna of the 
India Leaders for Social Sector program and has served 
and guided NGOs in the social sector such as Seva 
Sadan, Support, Aspire for Her, Beyond Diversity and Yuva 
Unstoppable, supporting social ventures in imparting 
financial literacy to students. 
	
She is an ACC-accredited coach with the International 
Coaching Federation, USA, a Gallup Strengths-based 
Coach, mentor and coach to several emerging men and 
women leader on a pro bono basis. She has worked across 
India and has been based in London, Singapore and 
Dubai for several strategic programs and projects. She is 
passionately committed to community service, healthcare 
and the environment and is a voracious reader with diverse 
interests in economics, quantum physics, evolution of 
societies around the world, humour and spirituality.
	
Mrs. Sheth has about three decades of experience 
in the field of Human Resource, Talent Acquisition, 
Marketing and Sales. 
Mrs. Varsha Jain
a.	
Key qualifications:
	
Bachelor of Science in Accounting and Finance from 
the United States International University – Africa, 
Nairobi, Kenya.
b.	
Broad experience:
	
Mrs. Jain has close to three decades of experience in 
interior designing, landscaping and architecture. Prior 
to her appointment as a member of the Board, Mrs. Jain 
served as Executive Vice President, overseeing CSR and 
Facility Management, since May 2015. Mrs. Jain pioneered 
numerous CSR initiatives to foster sustainable community 
development in villages, demonstrating leadership in 
social responsibility well before it was mandated by the 
Companies Act, 2013. Mrs. Jain has been actively involved 
in implementing the CSR projects and programmes 
approved by the CSR Committee and the Board, especially 
the Village Development Project and running of the 
Vocational Training Centre. 
	
As an executive in-charge of the CSR function, Mrs. Jain 
exemplified her commitment towards the society by 
adopting villages in proximity to the plants of the Company. 
Activities were undertaken to fulfil basic needs of hygiene, 
sanitation, provision of drinking water, education, livelihood 
generation, community development and environment 
conservation. During the mandatory lockdown announced 
due to Covid-19 pandemic, she spearheaded a host of 
activities which included distribution of food kits, donation 
of testing equipment to hospitals undertaking Covid-19 
treatment, providing financial assistance to families in 
low income groups and running a Covid care centre for 
asymptomatic patients. 
	
As the head of Facility Management, she oversees the 
civil construction in the organisation. With a wealth of 
experience in interior designing, she is involved in setting 
up and maintenance of the Company’s offices, gardens 
and guest houses. The Company has been consistently 
receiving awards for the best gardens and plantations for 
the last several years for the Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar 
region. Under Mrs. Jain’s leadership, the Company’s 
Horticulture Department received the Challenge Trophy 
for overall performance at ‘The Empress Botanical 
Garden Flower Show’ in 2024 and 2025, organised by 
‘The Agri Horticultural Society’ of India (Western Region) 
in Pune, along with 30 first prizes and 28 second prizes 
for excellence.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
a.	
Key qualifications:
	
Associate 
member 
of 
the 
Institute 
of 
Chartered 
Accountants of India.
b.	
Broad experience:
	
Mr. Banerjee has a career spanning around four decades. He 
began his career at Price Waterhouse, subsequently taking 
on roles in the pharmaceutical, healthcare, hydrocarbon, 
and metal industries, where he built extensive experience 
in finance, strategy, legal, IT, mergers and acquisitions, 
and general management functions. He served as Chief 
Financial Officer / Executive Director in Ranbaxy, Lupin, 
Cairn India and Indian Aluminium (Indal). He helped 
these companies transform into technology-led efficient 
organisations with superior competitive strength.
	
During his professional journey, Mr. Banerjee helped 
companies adapt to market changes, transform into 
innovative organisations, expand their market presence, 
and create significant stakeholder value. He managed 
situations of high growth, mobilised large capital 
investment from global investors, implemented new-
age ERP systems, facilitated major M&A transactions and 
managed integration thereafter, restructured complex 
organisations to achieve efficiency in capital usage and 
helped organisations achieve significant cost efficiency 
and productivity improvement. In other roles, he helped 
organisations recover from crisis to become global leaders 
in their segments.
	
In most of the functions that he worked in, the key business 
deliverable was creating globally competitive strength 
that helped build sustainable business. He helped create 
81 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report (Contd..)
cost synergies for global operations in the pharmaceutical 
industry, build robust cost effective infrastructure for 
greenfield hydrocarbon upstream facilities, rationalised 
multi-unit operation to make significant improvement 
of 
productivity 
in 
marketing 
and 
supply 
chain 
functions, among others. 
	
While performing his roles in the organisations he worked 
for, he focused, inter alia, on establishing good corporate 
governance practices, re-engineering of internal processes 
and systems to improve financial controls, establishing 
reliable risk-management platforms, creating reliable 
stakeholder management processes and training and 
development of talent.
Mr. Anurang Jain
a.	
Key qualifications:
	
Master's degree in Business Administration from the 
University of Pittsburgh.
b.	
Broad experience:
	
Mr. Jain has been the promoter director of the Company 
since its incorporation, and was last re-appointed as the 
Managing Director for a period of five years, effective from 
1st April, 2021. He is a first generation entrepreneur of 
the Endurance Group, established in 1985 and has sharp 
business acumen, in-depth knowledge of auto industry and 
strong focus on profitable growth. He has over four decades 
of experience in the automobile component industry.
	
Under his leadership, Endurance Group has grown both 
organically and inorganically and has transitioned from a 
two die casting machine plant operation to a technology 
intensive 
proprietary 
product 
portfolio 
comprising 
suspension, braking systems, transmission components and 
advanced electronics. As a global automobile component 
manufacturing leader, he brings deep experience across 
multiple markets and domains to his role. He has played a 
pivotal role in the profitable growth and expansion of the 
Company and Endurance Group, as a whole. The Group 
has operations with 33 manufacturing facilities in major 
auto hubs of India and Europe (Italy and Germany). 
	
Mr. Jain has spearheaded operational excellence and 
profitable growth in India and Europe through strategic 
acquisitions and collaborations, building an innovation 
focused, customer centric, quality first and Total 
Productive Maintenance culture at the Endurance Group, 
implementing agile strategies and critical consolidations, 
and nurturing the Endurance Vendors Association. 
	
Mr. Jain believes that continuous technological upgradation 
is key to sustainable and profitable growth. This is being 
ensured through in-house Research & Development 
(“R&D”) centres that are approved by the Department of 
Scientific and Industrial Research and strongly supported 
by technology inputs from global leaders through 
technology and know-how transfers and collaboration 
for joint-development. The Company’s efforts towards 
increasing its operational efficiency, R&D capabilities and 
focus on QCDDM parameters has earned the Company 
its position as a complete solutions provider for its diverse 
range of technology-intensive products to major two, three 
and four wheeler OEMs.
	
He has led the Company on a growth trajectory, with key 
strategic initiatives like consolidation of its operations, 
outsourcing of non-critical operations, strengthening of 
R&D and diversification of customer base. Even during 
challenges like the Covid-19 pandemic and the Russia-
Ukraine conflict, the Company improved its margins and 
financial ratios under his leadership and has stayed ahead 
of the growth curve compared to the auto industry. 
	
The Company is a preferred Tier-I supplier to major 
OEMs, both in India and overseas. In February 2025, Mr. 
Jain was felicitated with the ‘2024 Hurun India Self Made 
Entrepreneur of the Year’, in recognition of his outstanding 
contributions to India’s economic growth.
	
Mr. Jain has been instrumental in implementing innovative 
strategies of de-risking through unique product mix 
and foraying into new products through organic and 
inorganic growth. His philosophy is to stay ahead of peers 
by developing and offering new and technologically 
upgraded products. His leadership in securing technical 
collaborations with global industry leaders and driving 
technological advancements in the Company’s operations 
has enabled it to maintain a competitive edge. 
	
Mr. Jain also heads the Management Committee comprising 
the senior-most executives of the Company. They periodically 
review the performance of every vertical of the Company. 
The objective is to strengthen the Company’s systems and 
capabilities while continuing to focus on implementation 
of best-in-class corporate governance practices and risk 
management. He is also on the Board of its direct subsidiaries 
in Europe and oversees their operations and advises on 
organic and inorganic growth and other strategic matters. 
	
Mr. Jain’s strong ability to successfully drive business 
even during adverse economic conditions, while being 
grounded to the Company’s corporate values has earned 
him respect both as a leader and a mentor.
Mr. Rajendra Abhange
a.	
Key qualifications:
 
 
Bachelor 
of 
Mechanical 
Engineering 
(B.E.) 
from the Government College of Engineering, 
Chh. Sambhajinagar.
 
 
Fellow of the Institution of Engineers (F.I.E.) 
 
 
Alumni of the Oxford Strategic Leadership Program 
(OSLP) for strategic leadership.
82  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Board’s Report (Contd..)
b.	
Broad experience:
	
Mr. Abhange has experience of over 39 years with large 
corporates from automotive field and has been working 
in leadership roles as a top management executive. He 
started his career with Robert Bosch India in 1984. He 
was associated with Gabriel India Limited as a Senior 
Director and Chief Technology Officer till 2021. He was last 
associated with Auto Ignition Limited as President and CEO. 
	
He is recipient of several national awards such as ‘Golden 
Peacock-Eco-Innovation Award’ and ‘Arch of Excellence’ for 
service to the nation in the field of science and technology. 
He is also a global level speaker on System Safety ISO 
26262, vehicle dynamics and suspension engineering in 
Europe, North America and China. 
Mr. Alfredo Altavilla 
a.	
Key qualifications:
	
Degree in Economics from Università Cattolica, Milan.
b.	
Broad experience:
	
Mr. Alfredo Altavilla has more than three decades of 
extensive and varied experience, mainly, in the automobile 
industry. He has served at senior leadership positions within 
the Fiat Group while also serving on the Board of Ferrari SpA 
(seven years), Maserati SpA (ten years), Magneti Marelli 
SpA (ten years), Teksid SpA (ten years) and Chrysler 
LLC (six years).
	
Mr. Altavilla joined Fiat Auto in 1990, where he oversaw 
international ventures, followed by strategic planning 
and product development. In 1995, he was appointed as 
Head of Fiat Auto China, and in 1998, he was named as 
Head of its Asian Operations. In 2004, Mr. Altavilla became 
the Chairman of Fiat - GM Powertrain JV and Senior Vice 
President of Business Development of Fiat Auto.
	
In 2005, Mr. Altavilla took on the role of Chief Executive 
Officer of Türk Otomobil Fabrikasil A.S., while continuing 
as head of Business Development of Fiat Auto. In 2006, he 
was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Fiat Powertrain 
Technologies, and in 2009, he became a member of 
the Board of Chrysler Group LLC and while also being 
named Executive Vice President of Business Development 
for Fiat Group.
	
From 2010 to 2012, Mr. Altavilla served as President and 
CEO of Iveco and was a member of the Fiat Industrial 
Executive Council during 2011-12. He was the COO of Fiat 
Chrysler Automobiles for Europe, Africa and Middle East 
(EMEA) from November 2012 till August 2018.
	
He has also served on the Board of TIM SpA and Chairman 
of Recordati SpA (both entities listed in Italy). He was 
appointed as an Executive Chairman of Italia Trasporto 
Aereo SpA by the Italian Government where he served 
from 2021 to 2022.
	
Mr. Altavilla is a board member of Enerpac Tool Group 
Corp. (listed on NYSE), MSX LLC, Ambienta SGR SpA 
and Proma SSA Srl. He also serves on the Advisory Board 
of Roboze SpA, ARES Design SpA, and is a member of 
the Investment Committee of Vasuky. He is also a Senior 
Advisor at CVC Capital Partners and Managing Director of 
AMRE Srl (Family Office).
DIRECTORS:
The composition of the Board, as on the date of this Report is 
as follows:
 
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Position
1.
Mr. Soumendra Basu 
(DIN 01125409)
Chairman (Non-executive, 
Independent)
2.
Mr. Anurang Jain 
(DIN 00291662)
Managing Director (Executive)
3.
Mr. Satrajit Ray 
(DIN 00191467)
Director (Non-executive,  
Non-independent)  
(effective from 6th June, 2024)
4.
Ms. Anjali Seth 
(DIN 05234352)
Independent Director  
(Non-executive)
5.
Mr. Massimo Venuti 
(DIN 06889772)
Director (Non-executive,  
Non-independent)
6.
Mrs. Varsha Jain 
(DIN 08947297)
Director and Head – CSR 
and Facility Management 
(Executive)
7.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee 
(DIN 01365405)
Independent Director  
(Non-executive)
8.
Mr. Anant Talaulicar 
(DIN 00031051)
Independent Director  
(Non-executive)
9.
Mr. Rajendra Abhange 
(DIN 02697676)
Director and Chief Operating 
Officer (Executive) 
(effective from 6th June, 2024)
10.
Mr. Alfredo Altavilla 
(DIN 00366224)
Independent Director  
(Non-executive) 
(effective from 1st September, 2024)
Retirement of directors by rotation
In terms of Section 152(6) of the Act, Mr. Satrajit Ray, who retires 
by rotation at the ensuing AGM and being eligible, has offered 
himself for re-appointment. Information as required under 
Regulation 36(3) of the Listing Regulations is provided in the 
Notice convening the AGM.
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL:
The following officials are ‘Key Managerial Personnel’ of the 
Company in terms of the provisions of Sections 2(51) and 203 of 
the Act, as on the date of this Report:
i.	
Mr. Anurang Jain, Managing Director;
ii.	
Mr. Rajendra Abhange, Director and Chief Operating 
Officer (Whole-time Director);
iii.	
Mrs. Varsha Jain, Director and Head – CSR and Facility 
Management (Whole-time Director); 
83 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report (Contd..)
iv.	
Mr. R. S. Raja Gopal Sastry, Group Chief Financial Officer 
(Chief Financial Officer); and
v.	
Mr. Sunil Lalai, Company Secretary and Executive Vice 
President – Legal (Company Secretary).
Board of Directors and its Committees
During the financial year under review, the Board met five times. 
A detailed update on the Board, its composition and attendance 
of the Directors at each meeting is provided in the Corporate 
Governance report, forming part of this Annual Report.
The Board has constituted six Committees, viz., Audit Committee, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee, Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, 
Risk Management Committee and Finance Committee (a non-
statutory committee). All recommendations made during the year 
under review, by the Committees including the Audit Committee 
were accepted by the Board.
A detailed charter including terms of reference of various Board 
constituted committees, number of committee meetings held 
during the financial year 2024-25 and attendance of members at 
each meeting, forms part of the Corporate Governance report.
DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT:
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) of the Act, the Directors, based on 
the representation received from the management, confirm that:
i.	
in preparation of the annual accounts for the year ended 
31st March, 2025, the applicable accounting standards 
have been followed;
ii.	
the directors have selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at 
the end of the financial year and of the profit and loss of 
the Company for that period;
iii.	
the directors have taken proper and sufficient care for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of this Act for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and 
other irregularities;
iv.	
the directors have prepared the annual accounts on a 
going concern basis;
v.	
the directors have laid down internal financial controls to 
be followed by the Company and such internal financial 
controls are adequate and are operating effectively; and
vi.	
the directors have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and that 
such systems are adequate and are operating effectively.
DECLARATION BY INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS:
In terms of Section 149(7) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the 
Listing Regulations, the Independent Directors of the Company 
have submitted their declarations confirming compliance with 
the criteria of independence as stipulated thereunder. 
All Independent Directors of the Company have affirmed 
compliance with the Company’s Code of Conduct for Directors 
and Senior Management Personnel for the financial year 2024-25.
The Board noted declarations and confirmations submitted 
by the Independent Directors regarding their fulfilment of 
the prescribed criteria of independence, after assessing 
veracity of the same as required under Regulation 25 of the 
Listing Regulations.
An independent director is required to apply online to the 
Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (“IICA”) for inclusion of his / 
her name in the data bank for such period till he / she continues 
to hold office of an independent director in any company. 
In terms of Section 150 of the Act read with Rule 6 of the 
Companies (Appointment and Qualifications of Directors) Rules, 
2014, Independent Directors of the Company have confirmed 
that they have registered themselves with the databank 
maintained by IICA. Independent Directors are also required to 
undertake online proficiency self-assessment test conducted by 
the IICA within a period of  two years from the date of inclusion 
of their names in the data bank, unless they meet the criteria 
specified for exemption. All Independent Directors of the 
Company are exempt from the requirement to undertake online 
proficiency self-assessment test.
Opinion of the Board with regard to integrity, expertise 
and experience (including proficiency) of the Independent 
Directors
The Board is of the opinion that the Independent Directors 
of the Company are professionally qualified and well 
experienced in their respective domains and meet the criteria 
regarding integrity, expertise, experience and proficiency. 
Their qualifications and vast experience in varied fields help in 
strengthening the Company’s systems and processes to align 
the same with good industry practices and institutionalising 
tenets of corporate governance.
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
POLICY 
AND 
CRITERIA FOR MATTERS UNDER SECTION 178 OF 
THE ACT:
In terms of Section 178 of the Act, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy, covers Directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
and Senior Management Personnel of the Company. The policy, 
inter alia, lays down the principles relating to appointment, 
cessation, remuneration and evaluation of Directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel and Senior Management Personnel 
of the Company.
84  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Board’s Report (Contd..)
Details of the Company’s policy on directors’ appointment and 
remuneration, including criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes, independence of a director and other 
matters as stipulated under Section 178(3) of the Act, forms part 
of the Corporate Governance report. 
The policy was last revised by the Board at its meeting held 
on 12th February, 2025 and pursuant to the Listing Regulations 
is also placed on the Company’s website at https://www.
endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/
Nomination-and-Remuneration-Policy-2025.pdf.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION:
In compliance with the provisions of Section 178 of the Act, 
the Nomination and Remuneration Policy (“NR Policy”) of 
the Company, inter alia, specifies that the Board will conduct 
annual evaluation of its own performance, its Committees and 
the directors individually. Performance evaluation of Directors 
shall be done by the entire Board (excluding the director being 
evaluated). The Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
is responsible for implementation of the methodology 
followed by the Company, in this regard. The NR Policy of 
the Company is placed on the Company’s website at https://
www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/
Nomination-and-Remuneration-Policy-2025.pdf 
Performance of the Board is evaluated based on inputs from all 
the directors on a structured questionnaire through paperless 
software based platform, covering various aspects such as 
criteria of board composition and structure, effectiveness of 
board processes, information and functioning, orientation 
towards corporate governance and its contribution in effective 
management of the Company. Assessment and observations 
on the performance of the Board are discussed and key action 
areas for the Board, Committees and Directors are noted for 
implementation.
Information and other details on annual performance assessment 
are given in the Corporate Governance report.
SECRETARIAL STANDARDS:
The Company is in compliance with the Secretarial Standards on 
Meetings of the Board of Directors and General Meetings.
INFORMATION ON BOARD MEETING PROCEDURE 
AND ATTENDANCE DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 
2024-25:
Board meetings of the Company are conducted as per the 
provisions of the Act, the Listing Regulations and the Secretarial 
Standard-1. In the last meeting of each calendar year, the 
Board decides the schedule of meetings to be held in the 
succeeding year. 
Based on the dates of meetings decided by the Board, 
adequate notice is given to all directors and Committee 
members; an agenda with detailed notes thereon is sent at 
least seven days before the respective meeting. If any board 
meeting is to be held at a shorter notice, permission of at least 
one independent director is ensured. The notes to agenda 
contain relevant information and supporting documents along 
with recommendation from the management, for meaningful 
deliberation and / or decision on the agenda items.
A gist of Board and Committee meetings held during the year 
along with attendance record of each Director forms part of the 
Corporate Governance report.
AUDIT COMMITTEE:
Audit Committee of the Company is constituted in terms of 
Section 177 of the Act and Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations. 
As on 31st March, 2025, the Committee comprised the following 
directors as its members:
i.	
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee, Chairman;
ii.	
Mr. Soumendra Basu; and
iii.	
Ms. Anjali Seth
All the Committee members are Non-executive Independent 
Directors and are financially literate as required under Regulation 
18(1)(c) of the Listing Regulations.
The Committee invites the Managing Director, the Group Chief 
Financial Officer, and the Director and Chief Operating Officer, 
to attend meetings of the Committee. The Statutory Auditors 
and the Chief Internal Auditor are also invited for specific 
agenda matters.
Mr. Sunil Lalai, Company Secretary and Executive Vice President 
- Legal acts as Secretary to the Committee.
There was no change in composition of the Committee during 
the year under review.
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE:
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) 
of the Company is constituted in compliance with the 
provisions of Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of the 
Listing Regulations.
As on 31st March, 2025, NRC comprised following directors 
as its members:
i.	
Ms. Anjali Seth, Chairperson;
ii.	
Mr. Soumendra Basu; and
iii.	
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee.
All the NRC members are Non-executive Independent Directors.
85 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report (Contd..)
The Committee invites the Managing Director to attend 
meetings of the NRC. 
Mr. Sunil Lalai, Company Secretary and Executive Vice President 
– Legal, acts as Secretary to the NRC.
There was no change in the composition of the NRC during the 
year under review.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE:
The Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee is 
constituted in compliance with Section 135 of the Act.
As on 31st March, 2025, the CSR Committee comprised the 
following directors as its members:
i.	
Mr. Anurang Jain, Chairman;
ii.	
Mr. Soumendra Basu;
iii.	
Mr. Ramesh Gehaney (up to 5th June, 2024);
iv.	
Mr. Rajendra Abhange (co-opted as member of the 
Committee with effect from 6th June, 2024); and
v.	
Mrs. Varsha Jain
Mr. Sunil Lalai, Company Secretary and Executive Vice President 
- Legal, acts as a Secretary to the CSR Committee.
STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE:
The 
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee 
(“SRC”) 
is 
constituted in compliance with the provisions of Section 178(5) 
of the Act and Regulation 20 of the Listing Regulations. 
As on 31st March, 2025, the SRC comprised following directors 
as its members:
i.	
Ms. Anjali Seth, Chairperson;
ii.	
Mr. Anurang Jain; and 
iii.	
Mr. Satrajit Ray.
Mr. Sunil Lalai, Company Secretary and Executive Vice President 
- Legal, is the Compliance Officer of the Company and acts as 
Secretary to the SRC.
There was no change in the composition of the SRC during the 
year under review.
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:
The Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) is constituted in 
compliance with Regulation 21 of the Listing Regulations.
As on 31st March, 2025, the RMC comprised the following 
directors as its members:
i.	
Mr. Anurang Jain, Chairman;
ii.	
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee;
iii.	
Mr. Ramesh Gehaney (up to 5th June, 2024);
iv.	
Mr. Rajendra Abhange (co-opted as member of the 
Committee with effect from 6th June, 2024); 
v.	
Mr. Satrajit Ray (up to 5th June, 2024); and
vi.	
Mr. R. S. Raja Gopal Sastry
The Risk Management Policy of the Company is reviewed 
annually. The RMC last reviewed the policy in its meeting held 
on 6th November, 2024. The updated policy is placed on the 
Company’s 
website 
https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-
content/uploads/2022/11/Risk-Management-Policy.pdf. 
The policy lays down a framework for risk management and 
mitigation process commensurate with the scale and nature of the 
Company’s business. The policy also identifies the risk categories 
in line with the Company’s growth strategy, continually changing 
business environment and legislative requirements. As per the 
terms of reference of RMC, it is entrusted with the responsibility 
to periodically review the risk management framework. 
The risk management framework defines thresholds against 
each of the identified risk events and mitigation measures to be 
adopted. The framework is reviewed periodically by the respective 
functions, for necessary updates. The senior management team 
reviews the critical risk events and implements action plans to 
avoid recurrence of such events. A risk report is submitted bi-
annually for review by the RMC and the same is also placed before 
the Board for advice on matters of significance.
CREDIT RATING:
During the year under review, on 10th October, 2024, CRISIL 
Ratings Limited (subsidiary of CRISIL Limited), a credit rating 
agency registered with SEBI, has reaffirmed the long-term rating 
and the short-term rating for bank credit facilities as CRISIL AA+/
Stable and CRISIL A1+, respectively.
Also, ICRA Limited, a credit rating agency registered with SEBI, 
on 24th September, 2024, had reaffirmed the ICRA AA+ (Stable) 
rating for long term borrowing and ICRA A1+ rating for short 
term bank credit facilities / Commercial Papers.
Further, upon the Company’s request, CRISIL Ratings Limited 
has withdrawn its rating on the Commercial Paper program 
of the Company.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS:
In terms of Section 134(5)(e) of the Act, Internal Financial Control 
means the policies and procedures adopted by a company for 
ensuring orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to its policies, safeguarding of its assets, prevention 
and detection of frauds and errors, accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, and timely preparation of reliable 
financial information.
The Company has adequate Internal Financial Control systems 
in the form of policies and procedures. It follows a structured 
mechanism of function-specific reviews and risk reporting by 
86  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Board’s Report (Contd..)
senior management of the Company and matters of significance 
are brought to the attention of the Audit Committee and 
the Board. Further, internal Standard Operating Procedures 
(“SOPs”) and Schedule of Authority (“SOA”) are well defined and 
documented to provide clear guidance to ensure that all financial 
transactions are authorised, recorded and reported correctly.
In order to record day-to-day financial transactions and ensure 
accuracy in reporting thereof, the Company uses an established 
Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system, which is equipped 
with ‘maker and checker’ mechanism and has an audit trail of 
all transactions. Adequate controls and checks are built in the 
ERP system to integrate the underlying books of accounts and 
prevent any kind of control failure. Mapping of policies and 
procedures including SOPs and SOA is done through the ERP 
system and audit of these processes forms part of the work 
scope of both Internal and Statutory Auditors of the Company.
The Company has an in-house Internal Audit (“IA”) team lead 
by a Chief Internal Auditor. The Chief Internal Auditor, who 
functionally reports to the Audit Committee and administratively 
reports to the Managing Director is responsible for leading the 
IA department. The scope of work, accountability, responsibility, 
reporting and authority of the IA department is defined in the 
IA Charter, which is annually reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Chief Internal Auditor draws up an IA plan at the start of a 
financial year, which is approved by the Audit Committee and 
progress thereof is reviewed by the Committee at its quarterly 
meetings. In order to ensure objectivity and independence of the 
audit mechanism, IA activities for certain plants are outsourced. 
The IA team conducts audits of plants and corporate functions, 
specifically emphasising on systems, processes, procedures, 
guidelines and controls as also statutory compliances, adherence 
to policies / SOPs, and internal guidelines issued by the 
management. Implementation of the audit recommendations 
are monitored by the Chief Internal Auditor. 
Report on audit findings and corrective measures taken by the 
respective process owners, is reviewed periodically by the senior 
management team of the Company comprising the Managing 
Director, the Director and Chief Operating Officer and the 
Group Chief Financial Officer. Significant observations and 
status of implementation of recommendations of the IA team 
are presented to the Audit Committee. The Committee reviews 
the report and advises on improving the systems and processes, 
where necessary.
The Company’s internal control mechanism is commensurate 
with the scale of its operations thereby ensuring compliance 
with the Act and the Listing Regulations.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE:
In compliance with Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, 
a separate report on Corporate Governance along with a 
certificate from the Statutory Auditors towards compliance with 
the provisions of Corporate Governance, forms an integral part 
of this Annual Report.
The Managing Director and the Group Chief Financial Officer 
have certified to the Board with regard to the financial statements 
and other matters as required under Regulation 17(8) read with 
Schedule II to the Listing Regulations.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS:
Report on Management Discussion and Analysis as stipulated 
under the Listing Regulations and any other applicable laws for 
the time being in force for the financial year 2024-25 forms an 
integral part of this Annual Report.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT:
In terms of Regulation 34(2) of the Listing Regulations, a Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the financial year 
2024-25 forms part of this Annual Report and is placed on the 
Company’s 
website 
at 
https://www.endurancegroup.com/
wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Business-Responsibility-and-
Sustainability-Report-for-FY-2024-25.pdf. 
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PREVENTION OF 
INSIDER TRADING AND FAIR DISCLOSURE OF 
UNPUBLISHED PRICE SENSITIVE INFORMATION:
The Company has adopted a ‘Code of Conduct for Prevention 
of Insider Trading’ (“PIT Code”) in terms of the SEBI (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, (“PIT Regulations”). 
Further, the Company has also adopted a ‘Code of Practices and 
Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive 
Information’ (“UPSI Code”). 
The PIT Code and the UPSI Code are drawn up on the principle 
that the Company’s directors and employees owe a fiduciary 
duty, inter alia, to the shareholders of the Company to place 
the interest of shareholders above their own and conduct their 
personal securities transactions in a manner that does not give 
rise to any conflict of interest.
The PIT Code lays down guidelines for ‘designated persons’ 
on the procedures to be followed and disclosures to be made 
while dealing in securities of the Company and also stipulates the 
consequences of non-compliances or leak of confidential price 
sensitive information. The PIT Code was last reviewed and revised 
by the Board of Directors at its meeting held on 15th May, 2025. 
The UPSI Code documents the manner of disseminating 
Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (“UPSI”) for making 
it accessible to the public on non-discriminatory basis. The 
UPSI Code is reviewed annually and it was last revised on 6th 
February, 2024. 
Any information is determined to be UPSI, based on the 
principles enumerated in the Company’s Policy on Determination 
of Materiality of Event / Information.
In addition to the above, the Company also maintains a 
Structured Digital Database in terms of Regulation 3(5) of the 
87 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report (Contd..)
PIT Regulations containing the nature of UPSI and the names 
of persons sharing the information, names of persons with 
whom information is shared, along with the Permanent Account 
Number or any other identifier authorised by law.
CONSERVATION 
OF 
ENERGY, 
TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION 
AND 
FOREIGN 
EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS AND OUTGO:
The information on conservation of energy, technology 
absorption and foreign exchange earnings and outgo as 
stipulated under Section 134(3)(m) of the Act read with Rule 8 of 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, is attached as Annexure I 
to this Report.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INITIATIVES:
In terms of Section 135 of the Act read with Schedule VII to the 
Act and the Company’s CSR Policy, the Company undertakes CSR 
projects and programmes under the aegis of Sevak Trust, with 
whom it has been associated for more than a decade. The CSR 
projects and programmes undertaken are recommended by the 
CSR Committee, and approved by the Board. These are aimed 
towards enhancing employability by imparting skill-building 
vocational training to unemployed youth and undertaking 
developmental activities in villages to improve living standards 
and welfare through education, promoting health and hygiene, 
water conservation and agriculture oriented initiatives, providing 
community facilities, amongst others. The Company has 
established a Balwadi at Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar, to support 
children from underprivileged communities. This pre-school 
cum daycare centre provides early education to children aged 
2–6 years, especially those from under-resourced communities, 
not enrolled in any formal pre-school.
The Company has undertaken two heritage-focused projects. The 
first project involves setting up of a museum at Kagzipura village 
in Chh. Sambhajinagar, a historic site once known for handmade 
paper production, to revive and showcase this eco-friendly art. 
The second project aims to revive the Paithani art form through a 
dedicated weaving training centre, to preserve the legacy of this 
ancient silk weaving craft and to create livelihood. This training 
centre will be located within the Kagzipura Museum premises. 
The fortification of the site has completed, and construction of 
the museum building is in process. 
During the year under review, a special project was initiated for 
providing and installing the ‘roof top solar power generation 
unit’ to every household in one of the villages covered under the 
CSR projects of the Company.
Salient features of the CSR Policy are available on the Company’s 
website at www.endurancegroup.com. The Annual Report on 
CSR activities is attached as Annexure II to this Report. 
In terms of Section 135 of the Act read with Rule 4(5) of the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 
2015, the Group Chief Financial Officer of the Company has 
provided requisite certificate that the funds disbursed by the 
Company to Sevak Trust during the financial year 2024-25 have 
been utilised for the respective purposes and in the manner as 
approved by the Board.
Expenditure towards CSR activities
As per the requirements under the Act, the Company was 
obligated to spend an amount of H 125 million for CSR activities 
for the financial year 2024-25, calculated based on the average 
net profit before tax of the immediate preceding three financial 
years. The Board of Directors approved the following projects 
/ programmes to be undertaken as CSR activities during the 
financial year 2024-25, and these activities were as per Schedule 
VII to the Act and the CSR Policy of the Company: 
1.	
Village Development Project encompassing programmes 
undertaken in various areas such as water and sanitation, 
agriculture and livelihood, health and nutrition, education 
and community development;
2.	
Running of Vocational Training Centre; 
3.	
Furniture and fixtures for new building of Sevak Trust Balwadi 
and expenses for running the school from new premises;
4.	
Related expenses for construction of building for Kagzipura 
Museum and for Project on revival of Paithani art;
5.	
Providing and installation of roof top solar power 
generation unit to every household in one of the villages 
covered under the CSR activities of the Company; and
6.	
CSR activities in the vicinity of the Company’s plants at 
Narsapura (Karnataka).
The total amount spent by the Company, during the financial 
year 2024-25 towards approved CSR projects and programmes 
was H 131.74 million (including overhead expenditure of H 6.74 
million and cost towards impact assessment of H 0.37 million), as 
against H 125 million earmarked towards CSR in terms of Section 
135 of the Act.
DETAILS IN RESPECT OF FRAUDS REPORTED BY 
AUDITORS:
During the year under review, no instances of fraud have been 
reported under Section 143(12) of the Act.
AUDITORS:
Statutory Auditors
Based on the recommendation of the Board, the Members of the 
Company at its Twenty Third AGM had approved appointment 
of M/s. S R B C & Co. LLP (ICAI Registration No. 324982E/
E300003) (“SRBC”) as Statutory Auditors of the Company for a 
second term of five consecutive years. This appointment is valid 
from the conclusion of the Twenty Third AGM till the conclusion 
of the Twenty Eighth AGM of the Company. 
88  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Board’s Report (Contd..)
The Statutory Auditors of the Company have issued an 
unmodified opinion on the financial statements, both standalone 
and consolidated, for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025. 
The Auditors' Reports for the financial year ended 31st March, 
2025 on the financial statements of the Company forms part of 
this Annual Report.
Cost Auditor
As per the provisions of Section 148 of the Act and Rule 3 of 
the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, the 
Company is required to maintain cost records with respect 
to the manufacturing activities, viz. manufacturing of engine 
components, manufacturing of dies and moulds, and generation 
of electricity through windmills, for audit purpose.
Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the 
Board has appointed Mr. Jayant B. Galande, Cost Accountant 
(Membership No. M-5255) as Cost Auditor of the Company 
for the financial year 2025-26. The remuneration proposed is 
H 550,000 and is subject to ratification by the shareholders at the 
ensuing AGM. The said remuneration is excluding applicable 
taxes and out-of-pocket expenses, if any, payable at actuals.
Secretarial Auditor
In terms of the provisions of Section 204 of the Act and the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Board of Directors had appointed 
Mr. Sachin Bhagwat (Membership No. A10189, CP No. 6029) 
Practicing Company Secretary, to conduct audit of the secretarial 
records of the Company for the financial year 2024-25. 
The Secretarial Audit report for the financial year 2024-25 is 
attached as Annexure III to this Report. 
Further, owing to amendments in the Listing Regulations, the 
Company is mandated to appoint a Secretarial Auditor for a 
period of five consecutive financial years.
The Company proposes to appoint M/s. J. B. Bhave & Co., 
Company Secretaries, Pune (Peer Review Certificate No. 
1238/2021) as the Secretarial Auditor of the Company for a term 
of five consecutive financial years to conduct secretarial audit 
for financial year(s) 2025-26 to 2029-30. Detailed proposal for 
appointment is mentioned in the Notice of AGM of the Company. 
DISCLOSURES:
Policies of the Company
The Listing Regulations mandate formulation of certain policies 
for listed companies. Accordingly, the Board of Directors has, 
from time to time, framed and approved policies as required 
under the Listing Regulations as well as under the Act.
Certain key policies framed by the Company include:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Policy
1.
Nomination and Remuneration Policy
2.
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
3.
Dividend Distribution Policy
4.
Vigil Mechanism-cum-Whistle Blower Policy
5.
Risk Management Policy
6.
Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading
7.
Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management 
Personnel
8.
Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of 
Unpublished Price Sensitive Information 
9.
Policy for Determining Material Subsidiaries
10.
Policy on Determining Materiality of and Dealing with 
Related Party Transactions
11.
Policy for Determination of Materiality of Event / Information
12.
Policy for Preservation of Documents
13.
Archival Policy for Disclosures to Stock Exchanges
The above-mentioned policies are available on the Company’s 
website at www.endurancegroup.com/investor-relations.
These policies are periodically reviewed by the Committees 
responsible thereof and changes, if any, are recommended 
to the Board for approval. Changes to the policies also factor 
amendments in statutes or governing regulations. During the 
year under review, the following policies were revised: 
Sr. 
No.
Name of Policy
Revised date
1.
Archival Policy for Disclosures to 
Stock Exchanges
24th April, 2024
2.
Vigil Mechanism-cum-Whistle Blower 
Policy
6th November, 2024
3.
Nomination and Remuneration Policy
12th February, 2025
4.
Code of Conduct for Prevention of 
Insider Trading
5.
Policy on Determining Materiality 
of and Dealing with Related Party 
Transactions
6.
Policy for Determining Material 
Subsidiaries
7.
Policy for Preservation of Documents
8.
Code of Conduct for Directors and 
Senior Management Personnel
Kindly refer Annexure II for salient features of the CSR Policy 
enumerated in the Annual Report on CSR activities.
Further, based on the recommendation of Audit Committee, the 
Policy on Determining Materiality of and Dealing with Related 
Party Transactions was revised by the Board, at its meeting held 
on 15th May, 2025. 
89 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report (Contd..)
Following policies were revised post 31st March, 2025 till the date 
of this Report: 
Sr. 
No.
Name of Policy
Revised date
1.
Policy on Determining Materiality 
of and Dealing with Related Party 
Transactions
15th May, 2025
2.
Code of Conduct for Prevention of 
Insider Trading
PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES AND RELATED 
DISCLOSURES: 	
Disclosure of remuneration and other details as required under 
Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014 is attached as Annexure IV to this Report.
A statement containing particulars of employees as required 
under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rules 5(2) and 
5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is provided as a separate 
annexure forming part of this Report. In terms of Section 136 of 
the Act, the Annual Report and financial statements are being 
sent to the shareholders excluding the aforesaid annexure. The 
same is available for inspection at the registered office of the 
Company during business hours and will be made available to 
any shareholder on request. 
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR 
INVESTMENTS:
The Company has not given any guarantees covered under 
the provisions of Section 186 of the Act. Particulars of loans, 
advances and investments form part of the notes to the financial 
statements. Kindly refer note nos. 4 and 5 of the standalone 
financial statements for the details of investments made and 
loans given by the Company as on 31st March, 2025.
DEPOSITS:
During the year under review, the Company has not accepted 
any deposits from the public.
VIGIL MECHANISM-CUM-WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY:
In terms of the provisions of Section 177(9) of the Act, read with 
Rule 7 of the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) 
Rules, 2014, the Company has established a vigil mechanism, 
which forms part of the Vigil Mechanism-Cum-Whistle Blower 
Policy in terms of Regulation 22 of the Listing Regulations for 
directors and employees. The objective of this policy is to 
provide a reporting mechanism for any person who observes 
any unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud, or violation 
of the Company’s Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior 
Management Personnel and the Endurance Code of Conduct for 
Employees (“Codes of Conduct”). Such person can report the 
same to the Ombudsman appointed under the policy. The said 
policy also encompasses reporting of instances of leak of UPSI.
Protected disclosures can be made by a whistle blower to a 
dedicated e-mail ID and / or postal address of Ombudsman, 
appointed under the policy. The policy has been hosted on 
the Company’s website at https://www.endurancegroup.com/
wp-content/uploads/2022/11/vigil-mechanism-cum-whistle-
blower-policy.pdf.
An Ombudsman has been appointed in terms of the provisions 
of the Act to independently investigate protected disclosures 
communicated under the policy and matters of violation to the 
Codes of Conduct.
MATERIAL 
CHANGES 
AND 
COMMITMENTS 
AFFECTING 
FINANCIAL 
POSITION 
OF 
THE 
COMPANY BETWEEN 31ST MARCH, 2025 AND 
DATE OF THE BOARD’S REPORT:
There have been no material changes and commitments 
affecting the financial position of the Company, which have 
occurred between the end of the financial year and the date 
of this Report. 
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS:
As per the Listing Regulations, all Related Party Transactions 
(“RPT”) and any modifications thereto are placed before the 
Audit Committee for approval. Further, the Audit Committee 
accords specific / omnibus approval for RPTs, which are in 
the ordinary course of business and satisfy the principles / 
conditions of being at arm’s length basis. Details of the RPTs 
entered pursuant to the specific and omnibus approval granted 
are placed on quarterly basis before the Audit Committee for 
review and update. 
Particulars of RPTs entered during the financial year 
2024-25
During the financial year 2024-25, the Company did not enter 
into any contract / arrangement / transaction with related parties, 
which could be considered material, for which shareholders’ 
approval is required in accordance with Section 188 of the Act 
and the Policy on Determining Materiality of and Dealing with 
Related Party Transaction (“RPT Policy”).
Accordingly, there is no information to be disclosed in Form 
AOC-2, while the particulars of all RPTs in terms of the Indian 
Accounting Standard (“Ind AS”) – 24 are forming part of the 
financial statements.
The RPT Policy of the Company, as approved by the Board, 
can be accessed on the Company’s website at https://www.
endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Policy-on-
Determining-Materiality-of-and-Dealing-with-Related-Party-
Transactions-1.pdf
90  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Board’s Report (Contd..)
SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY 
REGULATORS OR COURTS:
There were no significant material orders passed by Regulators 
/ Courts which would impact the going concern status of the 
Company and its future operations.
ANNUAL RETURN:
In terms of Section 92(3) read with Section 134(3)(a) of the Act, the 
annual return of the Company for the financial year ended 31st 
March, 2025 shall be available on the Company’s website: https://
www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Draft-
Annual-Return-FY-2024-25.pdf.
DISCLOSURE UNDER THE SEXUAL HARASSMENT 
OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, 
PROHIBITION AND REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013:
The Company has adopted a “Policy on Safety & Security 
and Prevention of Sexual Harassment of Women Employees” 
(“POSH Policy”) in line with the requirements of the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013. The POSH Policy aims to provide a 
safe, friendly, positive and productive working environment and 
promote an atmosphere in which employees can realise their 
maximum potential. The policy applies to all permanent and 
temporary employees and also to workforce engaged by the 
Company through contractors.
The Company observes zero tolerance towards any kind of 
violation of the POSH Policy. As per the POSH Policy, the Company 
has constituted Internal Committees (“IC”) for all its locations. 
Such committees are chaired by a female employee and other 
senior management officials of the Company are its members 
along with an external member who has experience in dealing 
with cases relating to sexual harassment. The IC is responsible 
for redressal of complaints related to sexual harassment and 
follows the guidelines provided in the POSH Policy.
Out of five complaints received by IC during the financial year 
2024-25, no complaint was pending for investigation by the 
close of the year under review and all the complaints were 
satisfactorily resolved until the date of this Report. 
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS:
During the year under review, industrial relations remained 
cordial. 
As on the date of this Report, the Company has 11 agreements 
entered into with the labour unions for the Company’s plants 
located at Waluj (Dist. Chh. Sambhajinagar, Maharashtra), 
Chakan (Dist. Pune, Maharashtra) and Pantnagar (Uttarakhand). 
On 10th February, 2025, the Company announced a Voluntary 
Separation Scheme (“VSS”) for all its eligible permanent workmen 
at its plant located at L-6/3 (LPDC), MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, 
Dist. Chh. Sambhajinagar, Maharashtra. 57 employees opted 
for the VSS, leading to one-time outgo of H 106.35 million. 
Separation compensation was paid to the said employees on 
17th April, 2025. Through this VSS, the Company intended to 
right-size the plant in line with the production volumes. 
INVESTOR EDUCATION AND PROTECTION FUND:
In accordance with the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of the 
Act and the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Accounting, 
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), dividends 
of a company that remain unpaid or unclaimed for a period of 
seven years from the date of transfer to the Unpaid Dividend 
Account shall be transferred by such company to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”).
In terms of the foregoing provisions of the Act, unpaid / 
unclaimed dividend in respect of the financial year 2017-18 shall 
be due for transfer to IEPF on 11th October, 2025.
The Company has uploaded details of unpaid / unclaimed 
dividend amounts lying with the Company as on 31st March, 2025, 
on the Company’s website at https://www.endurancegroup.
com/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Statement-of-unclaimed-
and-unpaid-dividends-as-on-31st-March-2025.pdf.
The following table provides dates on which unclaimed dividend would become due to be transferred to the IEPF:
 
 
 
Financial Year
Date of declaration of 
dividend / interim dividend
Amount of unpaid / unclaimed 
dividend as on 
31st March, 2025 (in J)
Completion of seven years from transfer 
of dividend to unpaid account*
2017-18
6th September, 2018
40,688.00
11th October, 2025
2018-19
8th August, 2019
44,440.00
12th September, 2026
2019-20
3rd March, 2020
120,703.00
7th April, 2027
2020-21
25th August, 2021
44,425.00
24th September, 2028
2021-22
24th August, 2022
51,755.75
23rd September, 2029
2022-23
23rd August, 2023
64,015.00 
24th September, 2030
2023-24
23rd August, 2024
71,279.50
23rd September, 2031 
* Unclaimed dividend amount shall be transferred within 30 days of the dates mentioned above. 
91 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report (Contd..)
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS:
Your Directors take this opportunity to express their sincere appreciation for the commitment, hard work and support of all its 
employees and workmen during the year.
The Directors also express their gratitude to the shareholders, workmen unions, customers, vendors, dealers, bankers, government 
authorities of India and other countries where the Company operates and all other business associates for their continued support 
extended to the Company and for reposing their confidence in the management. The management looks forward to their continued 
support in future.
For and on behalf of the Board
Soumendra Basu
Date:15th May, 2025	
Chairman
Place: Mumbai	
DIN 01125409
92  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Annexure I to Board’s Report
Particulars of Energy Conservation, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo as required under the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014:
A.	 CONSERVATION OF ENERGY:
During the year under review, 4 MW windmills installed by 
the Company at Satara and Supa (Maharashtra) supplied 
4,482,704 units of electricity, all of which were used for 
captive consumption. 
	
Rooftop solar 
During the year under review, 9,982,270 units of electricity 
were generated by the Company's rooftop solar installations 
at its plants in Maharashtra (Chh. Sambhajinagar and Dist. 
Pune), Gujarat (Sanand and Halol), Tamil Nadu (Vallam), 
Karnataka (Narasapura) and Uttarakhand (Rudrapur), all of 
which were utilised for captive consumption.	
	
Open Access Power Purchase Agreements
During the year under review, the Company executed 
Power Purchase Agreements (“PPA”) to increase the 
renewable energy share in the energy mix. The Company 
has open access PPAs (Solar and Wind) in Maharashtra (Chh. 
Sambhajinagar and Dist. Pune) and Tamil Nadu (Chennai). 
Through these PPAs, 46,081,892 units were supplied and 
utilised for captive consumption. The Company is further 
maximising open access renewable energy share by 
additional PPAs of 10 MW at its plants located in Gujarat 
and Uttarakhand.
	
Energy conservation measures
During the year under review, the following measures were 
taken towards conservation of resources and energy: 
1.	
27 energy efficiency projects were completed, 
in areas viz. thermal efficiency, compressed air 
management, efficient utilities, power management 
and operational efficiency.
2.	
Third party energy audits were conducted at two 
manufacturing units. Energy efficiency opportunities 
identified through these audits have been assessed for 
implementation based on technical and commercial 
feasibility, as well as horizontal deployment potential.
3.	
Motor Management projects resulted in saving of 86 
MT eCO2 GHG reduction.
Compressed air management projects
Installation of IE4 compressors, verified-frequency drives, 
intelligent flow control units, and air leak detection 
system, collectively resulted in saving of 256 MT 
eCO2 GHG reduction.
Operational efficiency projects
1.	
Through delta-to-star connection on the grinding 
machines motors, the Company has saved 151,791 
kWh and 108 MT eCO2 GHG reduction.
2.	
Sustained focus on energy efficiency through 
implementation of innovative technologies, kaizens, 
and enhanced operational controls, led to efficiency 
in compressed air management, motor optimisation, 
furnace operations, surface treatments, utilities and 
machining processes.
Impact
1.	
Measures taken for conservation of electrical energy 
resulted in the saving of 1,296,616 kWh, ~1% of total 
electricity consumption.
2.	
Measures for reduced consumption of PNG resulted 
in the saving of 44,774 Standard Cubic Meter, ~1% of 
total PNG consumption.
Capital 
investment 
on 
energy 
conservation 
equipment
The capital investment made by the Company during the 
year under review on energy conservation equipment was 
H 81.97 million.
B.	 TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION:
Research & Development
The Company recognises that a robust Research and 
Development (“R&D”) foundation is critical for sustaining 
business profitability and achieving high customer 
satisfaction. 
Beyond 
serving 
as 
a 
comprehensive 
solutions provider, the Company prioritises delivering 
‘first-time-right’ products. To this end, the R&D team 
collaborates closely with the product development 
teams of Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”) 
to gain insights into their needs, enabling the creation 
of advanced, high-performance products that align with 
customer expectations.
The Company has five R&D Centres, approved by the 
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (“DSIR”) 
and dedicated to specific product categories. Over 382 
professionals are directly involved in R&D activities, 
supported by substantial resources focused on innovating 
new products and enhancing existing offerings to provide 
cutting-edge solutions. The Company has been consistently 
investing in technically advanced testing equipment and 
engineering software at its R&D centres, in order to further 
strengthen its R&D capabilities.
Intellectual Property (“IP”)
The Company is committed to continuous innovation, 
striving to deliver products incorporating the latest 
technological advancements. The in-house R&D team 
persistently works to refine products in response to 
customer and end-user requirements. Additionally, the 
93 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Company has been actively partnering with leading 
OEMs and global technology providers through technical 
assistance agreements to develop new products and 
strengthen its technological capabilities.
	
IP statistics
During the financial year 2024-25:
1.	
16 patents were granted to the Company, for several 
product lines such as Suspension, Braking systems, 
Transmission, and Driveline.
2.	
28 new patent applications and 30 new design 
registration applications were filed.
As of 31st March, 2025, the Company has:
 
 
91 patents;
 
 
68 designs registrations; 
 
 
83 patent applications; and 
 
 
9 design registration applications.
In alignment with its core corporate value of innovation, 
the Company regularly hosts ‘IdeaFest’, an initiative that 
fosters creative idea generation across all operational 
areas. Ideas submitted are thoroughly assessed, and those 
contributing to enhanced product performance, process 
improvements, safety, or cost optimisation are recognised 
and implemented.
Advanced Engineering
Advanced Engineering Group (“AEG”) supports in areas of 
Computer Aided Engineering (“CAE”) / Virtual Validation, 
Experimental Data Analysis (“EDA”), Failure Analysis, 
Material Analysis and establishing effective Product 
Lifecycle Management (“PLM”) systems, etc.
During the year under review, AEG maintained its 
commitment to producing ‘first-time-right’ and cost-
effective, lightweight products, employing a Cross-
Functional Team ("CFT") approach to address complex 
challenges and generate valuable design insights for future 
projects. Simultaneously, enhancements to PLM systems 
improved the efficiency of the New Product Development 
process 
while 
strengthening 
data 
security 
and 
confidentiality. The AEG also launched strategic initiatives 
to support the Company’s objectives of delivering high-
quality, reliable products.
During the year under review, focus of CAE and EDA 
was to generate useful design inputs drawn from tests 
conducted on the Endurance Proving Ground, having 
state-of-the-art eight test tracks, in combination with its 
existing simulation software and data acquisition systems 
for product evaluation. 
Specific areas in which R&D was carried out
I.	
R&D 
Centre 
at 
B-1/3, 
Chakan 
(Die-casting 
components):
i.	
Continued focus on ‘first-time-right’ products 
helped to achieve defect-free components in 
the initial trials. The CFT approach has improved 
design guidelines and checklists have been 
made more dynamic.
ii.	
Developed 
structural 
aluminium 
die-cast 
components for electric vehicle (“EV”) Tier 
1 suppliers and OEMs in both domestic and 
export markets.
iii.	
Leveraged collaboration between the Company 
and its overseas subsidiaries for structural casting 
analysis as well as for developing overseas dies 
in India and implementing automations.
iv.	
Continued to provide technical expertise to 
reduce in-house rejections.
v.	
New casting technologies are being effectively 
used to improve the quality and productivity of 
casting components.	
vi.	
Developed special alloy parts for EV application 
for higher mechanical properties.
vii.	
Developed die-casting parts for use in stationary 
engines (gensets).
viii.	 Received the Best Innovation Award from 
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited for light weighting 
through 
conversion 
of 
a 
non-automotive 
application from cast iron to aluminium.
ix.	
Implementing 
automated 
processes 
to 
minimise human intervention and reduce 
internal rejections.
x.	
Implemented 
Value 
Analysis 
and 
Value 
Engineering (“VAVE”) techniques to improve 
product quality and reduce part weight. 
Enhancing the metallurgical lab for Millipore 
test, and precise UTM testing.
xi.	
Die-electric 
coating 
and 
hi-pot 
testing 
developed for EV battery end covers.
II.	
R&D Centre at K-226/2, Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar 
(Braking Systems):
Products and new technology introduced: 
A premium brake system was developed for a key 
OEM’s high performance models with technical 
support from their team. Designed for high-
performance models, the system includes a radial 
Annexure I to Board’s Report (Contd..)
94  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
caliper and master cylinder, sintered brake pads, and 
a premium anodised finish.
New 
Technologies, 
process 
and 
quality 
improvements:
i.	
Introduced radical caliper for a 400cc motorcycle 
with indigenous Grimeca technology. 
ii.	
Introduced adjustable Lever Master Cylinder for 
250cc and 400cc models of a prominent OEM. 
iii.	
Floating disc technology approved by a leading 
OEM for application in its motorcycle model.
iv.	
Ride modes for ABS, developed indigenously, 
and demonstrated to a key OEM. 
v.	
Completed in-house ECU development and 
validation. Critical parts like PCB and Housing 
covers localised using a new snap fit locking 
mechanism, replacing the conventional process. 
vi.	
Introduced Sintered Brake Pads for a key OEM. 
vii.	
Developed steel braided hose and extrusion 
technology for mid and premium range 
motorcycles and scooters. 
viii.	 Commenced disc manufacturing using laser 
cutting for low volume products. This equipment 
provides flexibility of quick changeovers and 
elimination of tool investments.
ix.	
Concluded 
in-house 
anodising 
process 
improvement and capacity enhancement. 
x.	
Added 
induction 
hardening 
machines 
to 
enhance productivity in disc manufacturing. 
xi.	
Traceability 
systems 
deployed 
horizontally 
across multiple production lines. 
xii.	
Installed 
state-of-the-art 
assembly 
and 
manufacturing lines for premium brake systems 
featuring advanced process controls, and 
enhanced QCD controls, tailored for premium 
brake systems. 
xiii.	 Manufacturing 
facilities 
for 
steel 
braided 
hoses (braiding, extrusion and assembly) are 
now operational with ARAI, DOT and CQC 
certifications. 
III.	
R&D Centre at K-226/1, Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar 
(Transmission components): 
i.	
Secured final approvals for the APTC EVO clutch 
system across multiple motorcycle models. 
ii.	
Leveraged patented Adler clutch technology 
to customise solutions for premium motorcycle 
segment in India. 
iii.	
Developed a differentiated Assist & Assist 
Clutch, balancing performance, durability, and 
cost for mass market segments.
	
	
Looking ahead, our R&D team is advancing next-
generation transmission technologies:
 
 
APTC EVO – Premium Assist & Slip clutch for 
enhanced performance.
 
 
APTC Plus – An auto clutch system, representing 
our move towards transmission automation.
IV.	
R&D Centre at E-93, Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar 
(Suspension components):
i.	
Recently 
introduced 
technologically 
upgraded components:
a)	
Developed Adaptive Suspension Technology.
b)	
Enhanced 
performance 
Front 
Fork 
with 
Function 
Side 
Reaction 
Side 
(FSRS) technology.
c)	
 35 Inverted Air Fork Technology with DF 
& Sag Adjustability for Global Market.
d)	
Inverted Front Forks  37,  41,  43 with 
patented seat pipe design for value 
enhancement.
e)	
DF 
Adjustable 
Shock 
Absorber 
Technology implemented.
ii.	
Successfully developed:
a)	
Design Automation Tool – for ‘first time 
right’ products.
b)	
Innovative 
Fork 
Bolt 
to 
reduce 
weight and cost.
c)	
Mechanical Adjuster for High Speed & Low 
Speed Control for vehicle stability.  
d)	
Spring Pre-Load adjustability. 
e)	
Thermometric technology.
f)	
Radia-metric technology.
iii.	
Future-ready new Tech Centre planned for over 
200 SMEs and innovators with state of the art 
testing facility and research labs.
Annexure I to Board’s Report (Contd..)
95 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
iv.	
Focused approach towards affordable innovation, and NVH performance enhancement. Extensive utilisation of 
Proving Ground, with ride-and-handling experts. 
v.	
Focus on ‘Future Ready Product Innovation’ through a structured approach to improve product life and performance.
Benefits derived as a result of the above R&D activities:
1.	
Expansion of product portfolio for existing and new OEM customers.
2.	
Enhance product value proposition.
3.	
Minimise product development time.
4.	
Continue market leadership with superior products.
Information regarding imported technology (imported during the last three years)
 
 
Year of import
Details of Technology imported
Status
2024
Know-how and know-why assistance for 
friction material development.
Technology is being absorbed in a phased 
manner as per the agreed timeline.
H in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars of expenditure
2024-25
2023-24
i.
Capital 
144.34
57.20
ii.
Recurring
717.62
640.58
Total
861.96
623.22
Total Research and Development expenditure as a percentage of net 
revenue (without taxes) on a standalone basis.
0.97%
0.92%
(H in million)
Particulars
Amount
Earnings in foreign exchange
1,710.18
Foreign exchange outgo
6,798.65
	
Expenditure incurred on R&D	
C.	 Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo:
	
During the year under review, the Company exported automotive components to OEMs in European countries. The exports of 
spare parts for Aftermarket business were made to countries in Latin America, Middle East, Asia, Africa, Europe and North America.
	
Total foreign exchange earnings and outgo are given below:
	
For and on behalf of the Board
Soumendra Basu
Date:15th May, 2025 	
Chairman
Place: Mumbai 	
DIN 01125409
Annexure I to Board’s Report (Contd..)
96  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation / Nature of Directorship
No. of meetings of 
CSR Committee 
No. of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
attended 
1.
Mr. Anurang Jain, Chairman
Managing Director / Executive Director
4
4
2.
Mr. Soumendra Basu, Member
Chairman / Independent and Non-
Executive Director
4
4
3.
Mr. Ramesh Gehaney, Member*
Director and Chief Operating Officer / 
Executive Director
4
1
4.
Mrs. Varsha Jain, Member
Director and Head – CSR and Facility 
Management / Executive Director
4
4
5.
Mr. Rajendra Abhange, Member^
Director and Chief Operating Officer / 
Executive Director
4
3
Annexure II to Board’s Report
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) ACTIVITIES
1.	
A Brief outline on the CSR Policy of the Company
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (“CSR Policy”) 
of the Company was approved and adopted by the 
Board at its meeting held on 6th June, 2014 and was last 
approved by the Board of Directors in its meeting held on 
7th November, 2022 to align it with National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct (“NGRBC”) issued by the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs. 
	
Salient features of the CSR Policy of the Company are 
as under:
	
i.	
The CSR Policy lays down the philosophy and vision 
of the Company which drives the objective of CSR, in 
both letter and spirit.
	
ii.	
The approach and direction of the CSR initiatives 
are inclusive and have a focused approach 
towards Environmental, Progressive, Cultural and 
Developmental activities.
	
iii.	
The CSR Policy defines the areas in which the 
Company 
can 
undertake 
CSR 
projects 
and 
programmes and is aligned to Schedule VII to the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”).
	
iv.	
The CSR initiatives / activities are divided into 
four categories based on duration of projects 
/ programmes identified, which are one-time 
activities, short-term projects, long-term projects and 
ongoing projects.
	
v.	
The mechanism defined for implementation of CSR 
projects / programmes encompasses all the activities 
/ stages from the identification of CSR initiatives to 
monitoring thereof as per the annual action plan of 
the respective project, approved by the Board based 
on the recommendation of the CSR Committee.
	
vi.	
In the CSR Policy there is a separate section on 
‘CSR Governance’. The said section elaborates on a 
three-tier structure for fulfilment of the Company’s 
CSR obligations as stipulated under the Act and the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014. The three-tier structure comprises the 
roles and responsibility of the:
	
	
a.	
CSR department;
	
	
b.	
CSR Committee; and
	
	
c.	
Board of Directors of the Company.
2.	
Composition of CSR Committee as on date of the Report and meetings held during the financial year 
2024-25
	
* Ceased to be a director of the Company effective from 5th June, 2024. 
	
^ Appointed as a director of the Company effective from 6th June, 2024.
3.	
Provide web-link where composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the 
Board is disclosed on website of the Company
	
The Composition of CSR Committee and the CSR Policy are available at https://www.endurancegroup.com/investor-relations/; 
and details on CSR projects and programmes are given under https://www.endurancegroup.com/sustainability/.
97 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Sr. 
No.
Particular
Amount 
(in J million)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5) of the Act
125.00 
(ii) 
Total amount spent for the financial year 2024-25
131.74
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
6.74
(iv) 
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial 
years, if any
0.00 
(v) 
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
6.74
 (Amount in H million)
Sr. 
No.
Preceding 
financial years
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
Section 135(6) 
of the Act 
Balance 
amount in 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
Section 135(6) 
of the Act
Amount Spent 
in the financial 
year (in J)
Amount transferred to any fund 
specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso to Section 
135(5), if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
financial years
Amount
Date of 
Transfer
Not Applicable
 (Amount in H million)
Total amount 
spent for
financial year 
2024-25
Amount Unspent
Total amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per Section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII 
as per second proviso to Section 135(5).
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the fund
Amount
Date of Transfer
131.74
NIL
NIL
4.	
Provide executive summary along with web-
link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects 
carried out in pursuance of Rule 8(3), if applicable
	
Not Applicable for the financial year 2024-25. 
5.	
a.	
Average net profit of the Company as per 
Section 135(5) of the Companies Act, 2013:
	
	
The average net profit of the Company as per 
Section 135(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 for the 
financial years 2021-22, 2022-23 and 2023-24 was 
H 6,249.90 million.
	
b.	
Two percent of average net profit of the 
Company as per Section 135(5): 
	
	
H 125 million
	
c.	
Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or 
programmes or activities of the previous 
financial years: 
	
	
NIL
	
d.	
Amount available for set-off for the financial 
year, if any: 
	
	
H 8.11 million 
	
e.	
Total CSR obligation for the financial year 
[(b)+(c)-(d)]: 
	
	
H 116.89 million
6.	
a.	
Amount spent on the CSR Projects (both 
Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing 
Projects):
	
	
H 124.64 million
	
b.	
Amount spent on Administrative Overheads:
	
	
H 6.74 million
	
c.	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if 
applicable:
	
	
H 0.36 million (impact assessment pertaining to the 
financial year 2023-24)
	
d.	
Total amount spent for the financial year 
[(a)+(b)+(c)]:
	
	
H 131.74 million
	
e.	
CSR amount spent / unspent for the financial year:
	
f.	
Excess amount for set-off, if any:
7.	
Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three financial years:
Annexure II to Board’s Report (Contd..)
98  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
8.	
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility 
amount spent in the financial year:
	
√ Yes 	
	
No
	
If Yes, enter the number of capital assets created / acquired: Three
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
financial year: 
Sr. 
No.
Short particulars of property / asset(s) 
[including complete address and location 
of property] #
Pin code of 
property / 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
CSR amount 
spent 
(in J million)
Details of entity / Authority / beneficiary of registered owner
CSR Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered address
1.
Towards construction and furniture & 
fixture for Vocational Training Centre 
situated at Gut No. 54/P, Jogeshwari, 
Taluka Gangapur, District Chh. 
Sambhajinagar, Maharashtra.
431 136
25th February, 
2025
0.45
CSR00004059
Sevak Trust
Gut No.: 41/3B, 
Kanchanwadi, Opp. Walmi, 
Chh. Sambhajinagar- 
Paithan Road, Chh. 
Sambhajinagar 431 005, 
Maharashtra
2.
Towards furniture and fixture for pre-
primary school on land situated at 
Bhanudas Nagar, Phase–II, Gut No. 
343/1, CIDCO, Waluj Mahanagar-III, 
Ramraj Road, Waluj Budruk, Taluka 
Gangapur, District Chh. Sambhajinagar, 
Maharashtra.
431 109
1st October, 
2024
2.40
CSR00004059
Sevak Trust
Gut No.: 41/3B, 
Kanchanwadi, Opp. Walmi, 
Chh. Sambhajinagar- 
Paithan Road, Chh. 
Sambhajinagar 431 005, 
Maharashtra
3.
Towards construction of building and 
compound wall on land admeasuring 
~2 acre (81 Are) situated at Gut No. 2, 
Village Kagzipura, Taluka Khultabad, 
District Chh. Sambhajinagar, Maharashtra 
for Kagzipura Paper Museum and 
Paithani Art Training Centre, plot 
development and construction thereon.
431 101
11th March, 
2025
30.00
CSR00004059
Sevak Trust
Gut No.: 41/3B, 
Kanchanwadi, Opp. Walmi, 
Chh. Sambhajinagar 
- Paithan Road, Chh. 
Sambhajinagar 431 005, 
Maharashtra
	
# All assets are acquired by Sevak Trust from the CSR amounts funded by the Company for respective projects. 
9.	
Specify the reason(s) if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per 
Section 135(5): Not Applicable
Anurang Jain
Managing Director and 
Date: 15th May, 2025	
Chairman of CSR Committee
Place : Mumbai	
(DIN: 00291662)
Annexure II to Board’s Report (Contd..)
99 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Annexure III to Board’s Report
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the financial year ended 31 March, 2025
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members, 
Endurance Technologies Ltd.
E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj
Aurangabad 431 136
I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by Endurance Technologies Ltd. 
(hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis for 
evaluating the corporate conduct/statutory compliances and 
expressing my opinion thereon.
Auditor’s Responsibility:
My responsibility is to express an opinion on the compliance 
of the applicable laws and maintenance of records based 
on audit. I have conducted the audit in accordance with the 
applicable Auditing Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India. The Auditing Standards requires 
that the Auditor shall comply with statutory and regulatory 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about compliance with applicable laws 
and maintenance of records. 
Due to the inherent limitations of audit including internal, 
financial and operating controls, there is an unavoidable risk that 
some material misstatements or material non-compliances may 
not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and 
performed in accordance with the Standards.
Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute 
books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the Company and also the information provided by the Company, 
its officers, agents and authorised representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, I hereby report that in my opinion, the 
Company has, during the audit period covering the financial year 
ended on 31 March, 2025, complied with the statutory provisions 
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-
processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in 
the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company 
for the financial year ended on 31 March, 2025 according to 
the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules 
made thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of overseas 
direct investment. The Rules and Regulations related 
to Foreign Direct Investment and External Commercial 
Borrowings did not apply to the Company during the year;
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
	
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
	
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018 (Not applicable to the Company during the 
Audit period); 
	
(d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity shares) 
Regulations, 2021 (Not applicable to the Company 
during the Audit period);
	
(e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 
2021; (Not applicable to the Company during 
the Audit period);
	
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and 
dealing with client;
	
(g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 (Not applicable to 
the Company during the Audit period); and
	
(h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018 (Not applicable to the 
Company during the Audit period).
100  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
I further report that having regard to the compliance system 
prevailing in the Company and on examination of the relevant 
documents and records in pursuance thereof, no law was 
applicable specifically to the Company.
I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India;
(ii)	
The 
Securities 
and 
Exchange 
Board 
of 
India 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc. mentioned above. However, with respect to 
submission of disclosures of related party transactions pursuant 
to Regulation 23(9) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, the Company submitted the details with a delay of one day. 
I further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with 
proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors 
and Independent Directors.
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that 
took place during the period under review were carried out in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at 
least seven days in advance and a system exists for seeking and 
obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda 
items before the meeting and for meaningful participation 
at the meeting.
As per the minutes of the meetings duly recorded and signed by 
the Chairman, the decisions of the Board were unanimous and 
no dissenting views have been recorded.
I further report that there are adequate systems and processes 
in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of 
the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable 
laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
I further report that during the audit period, no specific events 
/ actions took place having a major bearing on the Company’s 
affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, 
guidelines, standards etc. referred to above. 
Sachin Bhagwat
ACS: 10189
CP: 6029
Place: Pune 	
UDIN: A010189G000344963
Date: 15 May 2025 	
PR No.: 6175/2024
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as Annexure and forms an integral part of this report.
Annexure III to Board’s Report (Contd..)
101 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Annexure
To,
The Members, 
Endurance Technologies Ltd.
E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj
Aurangabad 431 136
My report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. My responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on my audit.
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
secretarial records. I believe that the process and practices I followed provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
3.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and books of accounts of the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, I have obtained Management Representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and 
happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. My examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with 
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Sachin Bhagwat
ACS: 10189
CP: 6029
Place: Pune 	
UDIN: A010189G000344963
Date: 15 May 2025 	
PR No.: 6175/2024
102  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Annexure IV to Board’s Report
Information pursuant to Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
a)	
The ratio of remuneration of each Director / Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP”) to the median remuneration of the employees 
of the Company for the financial year 2024-25:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Directors / KMP and Designation
Ratio of remuneration to 
the median employee’s 
remuneration
% increase /(decrease) 
in remuneration in the 
financial year 2024-25
Executive Directors and KMP
1.
Mr. Anurang Jain, 
Managing Director
107.58
7.35%
2.
Mr. Ramesh Gehaney* 
Director and Chief Operating Officer (upto 5th June, 2024)
48.99
N.A.
3.
Mrs. Varsha Jain 
Director and Head - CSR and Facility Management
26.19
17.38%
4.
Mr. Rajendra Abhange* 
Director and Chief Operating Officer (effective from 6th June, 2024)
29.97
N.A.
Non-executive Directors@
5.
Mr. Soumendra Basu, Chairman
7.40
30.42%
6.
Mr. Satrajit Ray* 
Director and Group Chief Financial Officer (upto 5th June, 2024),  
Non-executive Director (effective from 6th June, 2024)
46.47
N.A.
7.
Mr. Roberto Testore* 
(upto 31st August, 2024)
2.30
N.A.
8.
Ms. Anjali Seth
6.28
29.10%
9.
Mr. Massimo Venuti **
0.00
N.A.
10.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
6.64
41.35%
11.
Mr. Anant Talaulicar
5.21
40.78%
12.
Mr. Alfredo Altavilla* 
(effective from 1st September, 2024)
2.75
N.A.
KMP
13.
Mr. R. S. Raja Gopal Sastry* 
Chief Financial Officer (effective from 6th June, 2024)
19.39
N.A.
14.
Mr. Sunil Lalai, Company Secretary
20.01
14.23%
	
N.A. = Not Applicable
	
@ Remuneration to Non-executive Directors includes sitting fees paid for attending meetings of the Board and its Committees, remuneration paid by way 
of commission during the year and also, remuneration paid by way of salary to Mr. Satrajit Ray as an Executive Director and KMP, upto 5th June, 2024.
	
* An increase in remuneration is not applicable, as the appointments and cessations occurred during the financial year 2024–25. Further, remuneration of Mr. 
Rajendra Abhange and Mr. R. S. Raja Gopal Sastry includes remuneration paid from the effective date of their appointments as an Executive Director / KMP. 
	
** Mr. Massimo Venuti is an employee of Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy and he does not draw any remuneration from the Company.
b)	
The median remuneration of the employees of the Company during the financial year 2024-25 was H 0.7 million.
c)	
Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year 2024-25 was 4.24% as compared to the 
previous financial year. 
d)	
Number of permanent employees as on 31st March, 2025 are 4,302.
e)	
Average percentile increase in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the financial year 2024-25 and 
its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof (and point out if there are 
any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration): 
	
Average percentile increase in the salaries of employees other than managerial personnel in the financial year 2024-25 was 
8.58%. Managerial remuneration decreased by 2.01% during the financial year 2024–25, primarily due to the superannuation of 
two Executive Directors, one of whom transitioned to the role of a Non-executive Director.
	
The increase in compensation of employees is guided by the factors such as market trends, internal parity and is in line with the 
normal pay revisions, which is linked to individual performance vis-a-vis the Company’s performance.
f)	
It is hereby affirmed that remuneration to the KMPs and employees of the Company are in line with the Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy of the Company.
103 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Independent Auditor’s Report on compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance 
as per provisions of Chapter IV of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended 
To,
The Members of 
Endurance Technologies Limited,
E-92, M.I.D.C Industrial Area,
Waluj, Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar - 431136
Maharashtra, India 
1.	
The Corporate Governance Report prepared by Endurance 
Technologies 
Limited 
(hereinafter 
the 
“Company”), 
contains details as specified in regulations 17 to 27, clauses 
(b) to (i) [and (t)] of sub – regulation (2) of regulation 46 
and para C, D, and E of Schedule V of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended 
(“the Listing Regulations”) (‘Applicable criteria’) for the 
year ended March 31, 2025 as required by the Company 
for annual submission to the Stock exchange.
Management’s Responsibility
2.	
The preparation of the Corporate Governance Report is 
the responsibility of the Management of the Company 
including the preparation and maintenance of all relevant 
supporting records and documents. This responsibility also 
includes the design, implementation and maintenance 
of internal control relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the Corporate Governance Report.
3.	
The Management along with the Board of Directors are 
also responsible for ensuring that the Company complies 
with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated 
in the Listing Regulations, issued by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India.
Auditor’s Responsibility
4.	
Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, 
our responsibility is to provide a reasonable assurance in 
the form of an opinion whether, the Company has complied 
with the conditions of Corporate Governance as specified 
in the Listing Regulations.
5.	
We conducted our examination of the Corporate 
Governance Report in accordance with the Guidance Note 
on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes and the 
Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance, 
both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (“ICAI”). The Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates 
for Special Purposes requires that we comply with the ethical 
requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by ICAI.
6.	
We 
have 
complied 
with 
the 
relevant 
applicable 
requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, 
Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews 
of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance 
and Related Services Engagements.
7.	
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks 
associated in compliance of the Corporate Governance 
Report with the applicable criteria. Summary of procedures 
performed include:
	
i.	
Read and understood the information prepared 
by the Company and included in its Corporate 
Governance Report;
	
ii.	
Obtained and verified that the composition of the 
Board of Directors with respect to executive and non-
executive directors has been met throughout the 
reporting period;
	
iii.	
Obtained and read the Register of Directors as 
on March 31, 2025 and verified that atleast one 
independent woman director was on the Board of 
Directors throughout the year;
	
iv.	
Obtained and read the minutes of the following 
committee meetings / other meetings held during 
April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025:
	
	
(a)	
Board of Directors;
	
	
(b)	
Audit Committee;
	
	
(c)	
Annual General Meeting (AGM) / Extra Ordinary 
General Meeting (EGM);
	
	
(d)	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
	
	
(e)	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee; 
	
	
(f)	
Risk Management Committee
	
	
(g)	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
	
v.	
Obtained necessary declarations from the directors 
of the Company.
	
vi.	
Obtained and read the policy adopted by the 
Company for related party transactions. 
	
vii.	
Obtained the schedule of related party transactions 
during the year and balances at the year end. Obtained 
and read the minutes of the audit committee meeting 
where in such related party transactions have been 
pre-approved prior by the audit committee.
	
viii.	 Performed necessary inquiries with the management 
and also obtained necessary specific representations 
from management.
104  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
8.	
The above-mentioned procedures include examining 
evidence supporting the particulars in the Corporate 
Governance Report on a test basis. Further, our scope of 
work under this report did not involve us performing audit 
tests for the purposes of expressing an opinion on the 
fairness or accuracy of any of the financial information or 
the financial statements of the Company taken as a whole.
Opinion
9.	
Based on the procedures performed by us, as referred in 
paragraph 7 above, and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, we are of the opinion that the 
Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance as specified in the Listing Regulations, as 
applicable for the year ended March 31, 2025, referred to 
in paragraph 4 above.
Other matters and Restriction on Use
10.	 This report is neither an assurance as to the future viability 
of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs 
of the Company. 
11.	
This report is addressed to and provided to the members 
of the Company solely for the purpose of enabling it to 
comply with its obligations under the Listing Regulations 
with reference to compliance with the relevant regulations 
of Corporate Governance and should not be used by any 
other person or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do 
not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care or for any 
other purpose or to any other party to whom it is shown or into 
whose hands it may come without our prior consent in writing. 
We have no responsibility to update this report for events and 
circumstances occurring after the date of this report.
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
Sd/-
per Mustafa Saleem
Partner
Place of Signature: Mumbai	
Membership Number: 136969
Date: May 15, 2025	
UDIN: 25136969BMNSYB7858
105 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
The Directors present the Corporate Governance Report of the 
Company for the financial year 2024-25. This report elucidates 
the systems and processes followed by the Company to ensure 
compliance of corporate governance requirements under 
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”) and the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“Act”).
1.	
PHILOSOPHY:
	
Your Company is aligned and committed to the ever 
evolving corporate governance practices and believes 
in going beyond the tenets of law. The Company always 
strives to achieve high standards of integrity, transparency, 
fairness, accountability, disclosures and business ethics in 
dealing with its stakeholders.
	
The Company firmly believes that strong governance 
principles provide a nucleus for sustained value creation 
and build stronger bonds that safeguard interests of all its 
stakeholders. All employees of the Company are guided 
by the five core values i.e. Customer Centricity, Integrity, 
Transparency, Team Work and Innovation. These have 
been instilled in the corporate culture which is directed 
towards continually improving the Corporate Governance 
framework and work ethos of the Company.
	
The philosophy on corporate governance is well observed 
and forms a part of the Company’s Code of Conduct for 
Directors and Senior Management Personnel as well as the 
Endurance Code of Conduct for Employees.
2.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
a)	
Composition:
	
As on 31st March, 2025, the Board of Directors of the 
Company (“Board”) comprised ten Directors, three of 
whom are Executive Directors, five are Independent 
Directors including one woman director and two Non-
executive and Non-Independent Directors. The Chairman 
of the Board is a Non-executive and Independent Director.
	
None of the Directors on the Board is a member of 
more than ten Committees or Chairperson of more than 
five Committees across all companies in which he / she 
is a Director, pursuant to Regulation 26 of the Listing 
Regulations. Further, none of the Independent Directors 
on the Board is serving as an Independent Director in 
more than seven listed companies. Necessary disclosures 
regarding Committee positions have been made by 
all the Directors.
	
Mr. Anurang Jain, Managing Director and Mrs. Varsha 
Jain, Executive Director and Head – CSR and Facility 
Management of the Company are relatives in terms of the 
Act. None of the other Directors are related to each other.
	
The Board is of the opinion that the Independent Directors 
fulfil conditions specified under the Act and the Listing 
Regulations and are independent of the management 
of the Company.
Sr. 
No. Director
Category
Original date of 
appointment / Date 
of last re-appointment
Attendance 
in last 
Annual 
General 
Meeting
Boards / Committees
Directorships*
Committee**
Member Chairperson
1.
Mr. Soumendra Basu
Chairman, 
Non-executive, 
Independent
16th June, 2010 / 
10th June, 2021
Yes
6
6
0
2.
Mr. Anurang Jain
Managing Director, 
Executive and 
Promoter
27th December, 1999 / 
1st April, 2021
Yes
1
1
0
3.
Mr. Rajendra Abhange@
Director and Chief 
Operating Officer, 
Executive
6th June, 2024
Yes
1
0
0
4.
Mr. Satrajit Ray#
Non-executive, 
Non-Independent
6th June, 2014 /  
6th June, 2024
Yes
1
1
0
5.
Ms. Anjali Seth
Non-executive, 
Independent
10th June, 2016 /  
10th June, 2021
Yes
7
9
4
6.
Mr. Massimo Venuti
Non-executive, 
Non-Independent
2nd December, 2016
No
1
0
0
7.
Mrs. Varsha Jain
Director and Head 
– CSR and Facility 
Management, 
Executive
10th November, 2020
Yes
1
0
0
Corporate Governance Report
	
Composition of the Board, as on 31st March, 2025, was as under:
106  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
Sr. 
No. Director
Category
Original date of 
appointment / Date 
of last re-appointment
Attendance 
in last 
Annual 
General 
Meeting
Boards / Committees
Directorships*
Committee**
Member Chairperson
8.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
Non-executive, 
Independent
9th February, 2021
Yes
4
4
2
9.
Mr. Anant Talaulicar
Non-executive, 
Independent
12th July, 2021
Yes
8
7
1
10.
Mr. Alfredo Altavilla##
Non-executive, 
Independent 
1st September, 2024
Not 
Applicable
1
0
0
	
*	 In accordance with the provisions of the Listing Regulations, directorships held in private limited, Section 8 and foreign companies have been excluded.
	
** In accordance with the provisions of the Listing Regulations, memberships / chairpersonships of only Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee in public limited companies have been considered.
	
# Designation of Mr. Satrajit Ray changed from Executive Director to Non-executive Director effective from 6th June, 2024.
	
@ Mr. Rajendra Abhange was appointed as an Executive Director of the Company effective from 6th June, 2024. 
	
## Mr. Alfredo Altavilla was appointed as an Independent Director of the Company effective from 1st September, 2024.
	
During the year under review, Mr. Ramesh Gehaney, Executive Director and Mr. Roberto Testore, Independent Director, ceased to be Directors of the 
Company from 5th June, 2024 and 31st August, 2024, respectively.
	
Mr. Testore stepped down prior to his term, due to personal reasons and in view of his commitments to other professional and business endeavours. Also, 
he has confirmed that there are no other material reasons, other than those provided hereinabove, for his resignation.
b)	
Names of other listed entities where the Directors are holding directorships, as on 31st March, 2025:
 
 
Sr. 
No.
Director
Name of listed entity
Category of directorship
1.
Ms. Anjali Seth
Kalpataru Projects International Limited
Independent Director
Centrum Capital Limited
Independent Director
Nirlon Limited
Independent Director
2.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
Fortis Healthcare Limited
Independent Director
3.
Mr. Anant Talaulicar
The Hi-Tech Gears Limited
Non-executive, Non-Independent Director
India Nippon Electricals Limited
Independent Director
Everest Industries Limited
Independent Director
KPIT Technologies Limited
Independent Director
Sr. 
No.
Date of Meeting
Category
24th April, 
2024
16th May, 
2024
13th August, 
2024
6th November, 
2024
12th February, 
2025
No. of Meeting /  
Name of Directors
133rd
134th
135th
136th
137th
1.
Mr. Soumendra Basu
Chairman, 
Non-executive, 
Independent
2.
Mr. Anurang Jain
Managing Director, 
Executive, Promoter
3.
Mr. Roberto Testore
Non-executive, 
Independent
(up to 31st August 2024)
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
	
Number of Board meetings:
	
During the financial year 2024-25, the Board met five times on following dates, viz. 24th April, 2024, 16th May, 2024, 13th August, 
2024, 6th November, 2024 and 12th February, 2025. The statement below tabulates the attendance of each of the director at the 
aforementioned Board meetings.
107 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Date of Meeting
Category
24th April, 
2024
16th May, 
2024
13th August, 
2024
6th November, 
2024
12th February, 
2025
No. of Meeting /  
Name of Directors
133rd
134th
135th
136th
137th
4.
Mr. Ramesh Gehaney
Director and Chief 
Operating Officer, 
Executive 
(up to 5th June, 2024)
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
5.
Mr. Satrajit Ray
Director and Group 
Chief Financial Officer 
(up to 5th June, 2024) 
Non-executive 
(from 6th June, 2024)
6.
Mr. Rajendra Abhange 
Director and Chief 
Operating Officer, 
Executive 
(from 6th June, 2024)
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
7.
Ms. Anjali Seth
Non-executive, 
Independent
8.
Mr. Massimo Venuti
Non-executive, 
Non-Independent
9.
Mrs. Varsha Jain
Director and Head 
– CSR and Facility 
Management, Executive
10.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
Non-executive, 
Independent
11.
Mr. Anant Talaulicar
Non-executive, 
Independent
12.
Mr. Alfredo Altavilla 
Non-executive, 
Independent 
(from 1st September, 2024)
Not 
Applicable
 Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
- Presence of Directors
c)	
Certificate of Non-Debarment:
	
In terms of the Listing Regulations, M/s. SVD & Associates, Company Secretaries, Pune has issued a certificate, which forms a 
part of this Annual Report, stating that none of the directors on the Board of the Company have been debarred or disqualified 
from being appointed or continuing as Directors of company(ies) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India / Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs or any other statutory authority. 
d)	
Shareholding of Non-executive Directors:
	
None of the Non-executive Directors hold any equity share or convertible instrument in the Company.
e)	
Skills / expertise / competence of Directors:
	
The Directors of the Company collectively bring with them a wide range of skills, expertise and competence gained by their 
rich experience, which enhances quality of the Board’s decision making process. The Company believes that building a diverse 
and inclusive culture is integral to its success. A diverse Board is able to leverage different skills, qualifications, professional 
experiences, perspectives and backgrounds, which is necessary for achieving sustainable and balanced growth of an organisation. 
108  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
	
Matrix setting out the core skills / expertise / competence, fundamental for the Board for effective functioning and monitoring 
of the Company:
 
Sr. 
No.
Skills / expertise / 
competence
Details
1.
Domain knowledge in auto 
/ auto components industry
In depth knowledge and experience of auto component and automotive industry including 
aftermarket business in India and abroad. 
2.
Strategy and Planning
Experience in long-term sustainable business strategy formulation considering emerging 
business trends and evolving external environment.
3.
Business Management 
Extensive experience of managing business in a leadership capacity, encompassing diverse 
facets of business such as operations, sales & marketing and supply chain management, etc.
4.
Financial knowledge and 
expertise 
Comprehensive experience of financial management, including strong understanding of 
financial statements, internal controls, risk management, treasury operations, mergers and 
acquisitions, investor relations. 
5.
Law and Governance
Expertise in laws and governance practices relevant to the business and regulatory environment.
6.
Human Resources and 
Industrial Relations
Expertise and experience in human resources and industrial relations management 
complemented by knowledge of current practices in this area.
7.
Technology and Research 
and Development
Knowledge in current technology trends and products along with expertise in technology 
partnerships and collaborations.
Name of Directors
Skills / expertise / competence
Domain 
knowledge in 
auto / auto 
components 
industry
Strategy 
and 
Planning
Business 
Management
Financial 
knowledge 
and expertise
Law and 
Governance
Human 
Resources 
and Industrial 
Relations
Technology and 
Research and 
Development
Mr. Soumendra Basu
Mr. Anurang Jain
Mr. Rajendra Abhange 
Mr. Satrajit Ray
Ms. Anjali Seth
Mr. Massimo Venuti
Mrs. Varsha Jain
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
Mr. Anant Talaulicar
Mr. Alfredo Altavilla
	
Mapping of skills / expertise / competence actually available with the Board along with the names of Directors, is given below:
f)	
Familiarisation Programmes for Independent Directors:
	
Independent Directors on the Board receive a formal introduction to the Company and its operations. This is facilitated through 
a meeting with the Managing Director, Whole Time Directors and members of the senior management team. The objective 
is to provide them with insights into the industry in which the Company operates and comprehensive information about the 
Company’s business, operations and management. 
	
Various familiarisation initiatives are carried out throughout the year on an on-going basis which include comprehensive update 
at the Board and Committee meetings on the Company’s performance and industry scenario, and information on specific 
functions / departments through presentations by the senior executives. Further, analysis on amendments in corporate laws and 
regulations applicable to the Company including its implications thereof are also compiled and circulated for information of the 
Board members / presented to them during the meeting.
	
Details of familiarisation initiatives undertaken by the Company are made available on the website of the Company at https://
www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Details-of-Familiarisation-Programme-2024-25.pdf
109 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
	
The aim of familiarisation programmes is to give the 
Independent Directors an update on:
	
i.	
the industry in which the Company operates;
	
ii.	
business model and strategic plans of the Company;
	
iii.	
roles, rights, responsibilities of independent directors; and
	
iv.	
other relevant / significant information pertaining 
to or affecting the Company to enable them take 
informed decisions.
	
Independent Directors on the Board have diverse 
background with rich experience and expertise in their 
respective domains. They have an aptitude to keep 
themselves abreast with changes in the industry and 
applicable regulations. 
	
The Company undertakes following initiatives to apprise 
them with significant and relevant information, which helps 
in effective discharge of their duties and responsibilities as 
independent directors of the Company:
	
I.	
Appointment of Director(s):
	
	
A formal letter of appointment is issued to a director, 
inter alia, giving details of the Committee(s) where he 
/ she is also appointed as a member along with the 
terms of reference, information about other Board 
constituted committees, roles and responsibilities as 
independent director. The Director is also provided 
with a handbook, which gives an overview on the 
Company and the Management comprising, amongst 
others, the following information:
	
	
a.	
Corporate overview:
	
	
	
i.	
Company’s vision, mission and values;
	
	
	
ii.	
Descriptive input on the range of products 
manufactured by the Company and other 
operating entities; and 
	
	
	
iii.	
Organogram 
of 
Endurance 
Group, 
which details the subsidiaries and their 
shareholding pattern.
	
	
b.	
Board and Management overview:
	
	
	
i.	
Constitution of the Board and various 
Committees of the Board along with their 
terms of reference and names of members;
	
	
	
ii.	
Profile of the Board members; and
	
	
	
iii.	
Names and contact details of members of 
core management team. 
	
	
c.	
Reference Documents:
	
	
	
i.	
Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior 
Management Personnel;
	
	
	
ii.	
Code of Conduct for Prevention of 
Insider Trading;
	
	
	
iii.	
Corporate policies of the Company approved 
by the Board which, inter-alia, include Vigil 
mechanism–cum–Whistle 
Blower 
Policy, 
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Policy, 
Nomination and Remuneration Policy, Risk 
Management Policy; and
	
	
	
iv.	
Powers 
of 
the 
Board, 
liabilities 
of 
Directors, their duties and responsibilities, 
etc. as enumerated in the Act and the 
Listing Regulations.
	
II.	
Updates at the Board Meetings: 
	
	
Frequency: At periodic intervals (annual / bi-
annual / quarterly).
	
	
Presentations are made by head of functions / 
senior executives of the Company to the Board. 
These are with an aim to keep the Non-executive 
Directors apprised and updated on various matters, 
inter alia, encompassing:
	
	
i.	
Company’s 
performance 
vis-à-vis 
industry 
performance, business trends, update on plant 
operations, new orders / share of business 
of customers, initiatives on Research and 
Development (“R&D”) and other significant 
matters like, setting up of new facility/ies, 
acquisition(s);
	
	
ii.	
Detailed review on operating and financial 
performance of the Company’s domestic 
and overseas subsidiaries including business 
trends based on economic and geo-political 
specific influence;
	
	
iii.	
Strategic 
business 
plans 
including 
annual budgets;
	
	
iv.	
An overview on key functions like Environment, 
Health and Safety (“EHS”), R&D, Marketing, 
Sourcing, Human Resources, Aftermarket, their 
staffing, relevant update and progress in their 
respective areas including SWOT analysis, 
wherever required.
	
	
v.	
Risk assessment and mitigation plans as per the 
adopted Risk Management framework;
	
	
vi.	
Initiatives relating to EHS;
	
	
vii.	
Amendments to the Act, the Listing Regulations 
and other applicable laws; 
	
	
viii.	 Adequacy of internal controls systems including 
internal financial controls;
110  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
	
	
ix.	
Any 
significant 
information 
relating 
to 
the subsidiaries;
	
	
x.	
Significant internal audit findings / observations;
	
	
xi.	
Initiatives undertaken towards Corporate Social 
Responsibility;
	
	
xii.	
Changes at senior level management;
	
	
xiii.	 Litigations and compliance; and
	
	
xiv.	 Performance evaluation of the Board – as a whole, 
its committees and the individual Directors.
	
	
The Board is apprised on the Company’s online 
compliance management system ‘Anupalan’, to 
provide insight on the reporting and monitoring 
mechanism for all relevant acts, regulations and 
statutes applicable to the Company.
	
	
At periodic intervals, Board meetings are held at 
one of the Company’s plants in India or at overseas 
subsidiary(ies), during which, factory visits are also 
organised for the Directors. 
	
III.	
Event based updates:
	
	
In terms of the Listing Regulations, events stipulated 
as material or those assessed to be material based on 
the criteria laid down in the ‘Policy for Determination 
of Materiality of Event / Information’ (“Policy”) are 
shared with the Independent Directors, simultaneous 
to its dissemination to all the shareholders by way of 
corporate announcements through stock exchanges 
and uploading on the Company’s website.
	
	
The updated Policy is placed on the Company’s 
website at https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-
content/uploads/2022/11/Policy-for-Determination-
of-Materiality-of-Events-v7.pdf
	
	
Quarterly updates on performance of the Company 
and auto industry, both in India and overseas are also 
shared with the Board of Directors. These primarily 
contain overview on the:
 
 
Performance 
and 
key 
events 
such 
as 
acquisitions, new business wins, and new 
technology offerings; 
 
 
Regulatory and auto industry updates including 
Electric Vehicles; and
 
 
Original 
Equipment 
Manufacturer 
specific performance.
IV.	
Interactions with senior management team of the 
Company:
	
	
The Directors have unrestricted access to information 
and are at liberty to interact with the senior management 
officials of the Company. The Independent Directors 
with domain expertise are invited to attend internal 
management review meetings where key strategic 
deliberations relating to the business plans, human 
resources initiatives, etc. are discussed. Such forums 
provide an opportunity to the Board members to 
interact with project / functional teams, which gives 
an insight from business perspective and provides a 
platform for the management to receive strategic inputs 
from the Directors.
	
	
Details of the familiarisation programmes undertaken 
during the financial year 2024-25 are available on the 
Company’s website at https://www.endurancegroup.
com/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Details-of-
Familiarisation-Programme-2024-25.pdf
g)	
Credit rating: 
	
During the year under review, CRISIL Ratings Limited 
(“CRISIL”), a credit rating agency registered with SEBI, has 
reaffirmed the long-term rating for bank credit facilities 
and the short-term rating for bank credit facilities as CRISIL 
AA+/Stable and CRISIL A1+, respectively. Also, ICRA 
Limited, a credit rating agency registered with SEBI, has 
reaffirmed the ICRA AA+ (Stable) rating for long-term 
bank credit facilities and ICRA A1+ rating for short-term 
bank credit facilities / CPs. Further, upon the Company’s 
request, CRISIL has withdrawn its rating on CPs Program 
of the Company.
3.	
AUDIT COMMITTEE:
	
The Audit Committee of the Company is constituted in 
compliance with the provisions of Section 177 of the Act 
and Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations. 
	
As on 31st March, 2025, the Committee comprised following 
Directors as its members:
	
i.	
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee, Chairman;
	
ii.	
Mr. Soumendra Basu; and
	
iii.	
Ms. Anjali Seth.
	
All Committee members are Independent Directors and 
possess financial literacy. Additionally, Mr. Indrajit Banerjee 
and Mr. Soumendra Basu have the financial management 
expertise as required under Regulation 18(1)(c) of the 
Listing Regulations.
	
The Audit Committee invites the Managing Director, 
the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Director and Chief 
Operating Officer, the Statutory Auditors and the Chief 
Internal Auditor of the Company to attend its meetings.
	
Mr. Sunil Lalai, Company Secretary and Executive Vice 
President – Legal of the Company, acts as a Secretary to 
the Audit Committee.
111 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
	
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are as under:
	
1.	
Overseeing the financial reporting process to ensure 
fairness, transparency, sufficiency and reliability of 
financial statements, including recognition, recording 
and reporting of financial information in accordance 
with the applicable laws to ensure correctness, 
sufficiency and credibility;
	
2.	
Recommending the appointment, remuneration and 
terms of appointment of statutory auditors;
	
3.	
Approving payment to statutory auditors for any 
other services rendered by them;
	
4.	
Reviewing and monitoring the statutory auditor’s 
independence, performance, and the effectiveness of 
the audit process;
	
5.	
Reviewing the adequacy of internal control systems 
including evaluating the internal financial controls 
and risk management systems;
	
6.	
Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, 
if any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official 
heading 
the 
department, 
reporting 
structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit; 
	
7.	
Recommending appointment and removal of internal 
auditor and outsourced internal auditors for our 
Company’s overall operations and its auditable units;
	
8.	
Discussing any significant findings with internal 
auditors and following up on them;
	
9.	
Examining the financial statements particularly 
investments made by any unlisted subsidiaries;
	
10.	 Regularly discussing the nature, scope and audit plans 
with statutory and internal auditors and conducting 
post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern;
	
11.	 Reviewing, with the management, performance of the 
statutory and internal auditors; 
	
12.	 Reviewing 
compliance 
with 
the 
internal 
and 
statutory audit reports and examining reasons for 
substantial defaults and delays in implementing audit 
recommendations; 
	
13.	 Reviewing and examining, the annual financial 
statements with the management before submission 
to the Board, including:
	
	
i.	
Matters required to be included in the directors’ 
responsibility statement to be mentioned in the 
Board’s report;
	
	
ii.	
Any changes in the accounting policies and 
practices and reasons for the same;
	
	
iii.	
Major accounting entries based on exercise of 
judgment by the management;
	
	
iv.	
Compliance with the listing and other legal 
requirements relating to the financial statements;
	
	
v.	
Non-recurring, abnormal and one-time entries;
	
	
vi.	
Qualification, if any, in the draft audit report;
	
	
vii.	
Significant adjustments made in the financial 
statements arising out of the audit findings;
	
	
viii.	 Disclosure of related party transactions; and
	
	
ix.	
Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report.
	
14.	 Reviewing, 
the 
quarterly 
financial 
statements 
with the management before submission to the 
Board for approval;
	
15.	 Reviewing the following information:
	
	
i.	
Management discussion and analysis of the 
financial condition and results of operations;
	
	
ii.	
Management letters / letters of internal control 
weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors;
	
	
iii.	
Internal audit reports relating to the internal 
control weaknesses;
	
	
iv.	
The appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Chief Internal Auditor;
	
	
v.	
Statement of deviations:
	
	
	
a.	
quarterly 
statement 
of 
deviation(s) 
submitted 
to 
the 
stock 
exchange(s) 
in terms of Regulation 32(1) of the 
Listing Regulations;
	
	
	
b.	
annual statement of funds utilised for 
purposes other than those stated in the offer 
document / prospectus / notice in terms of 
Regulation 32(5) of the Listing Regulations.
	
16.	 Reviewing findings of internal investigations by 
the internal auditors involving suspected fraud, 
financial integrity, irregularities or significant failures 
of internal control systems, and reporting these 
matters to the Board;
	
17.	 Reviewing 
and 
investigating 
the 
reasons 
for 
substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, 
debenture holders, shareholders (in case of non-
payment of declared dividends) and creditors;
	
18.	 Reviewing the security and control aspects of the 
information technology and connectivity systems;
	
19.	
Reviewing, with the management, the statement of uses 
/ application of funds raised through an issue (public 
issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the statement 
of funds utilised for purposes other than those stated in 
the offer document / prospectus / notice and the report 
112  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring the 
utilisation of proceeds of a public issue or rights issue 
or preferential issue or qualified institutions placement, 
and make appropriate recommendations to the Board 
to take steps in this matter;
	
20.	 Approving or subsequently modifying transactions 
with the related parties including granting omnibus 
approval subject to the conditions prescribed 
in the Listing Regulations and the related party 
transactions policy;
	
21.	 Scrutinising inter-corporate loans and investments;
	
22.	 Ensuring valuation of undertakings or assets of our 
Company, wherever it is necessary;
	
23.	 Reviewing 
the 
functioning 
of 
the 
whistle 
blower mechanism;
	
24.	 Approving appointment of the chief financial officer 
after assessing the qualifications, experience and 
background, etc. of the candidate;
	
25.	 Review of statutory compliances and legal cases; 
	
26.	 Carrying out any other functions as provided under the 
Act, the Listing Regulations and other applicable law;
	
27.	 To review the utilisation of loans and / or advances 
from / investment by the Company in its subsidiary(ies) 
exceeding H 1,000 million or 10% of the asset size of 
the respective subsidiary, whichever is lower including 
existing loans / advances / investments; 
	
28.	 To approve remuneration and sitting fee by the 
Company or its subsidiary (ies) to its Directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel, Senior Management Personnel:
	
	
a.	
where they belong to the Promoter or the 
Promoter Group; and / or
	
	
b.	
where the amount is material in terms of 
Regulation 23(1) of the Listing Regulations; and
	
29.	 Any 
other 
term 
of 
reference 
as 
may 
be 
mandated by the Board. 
	
During the financial year 2024-25, the Audit Committee met four times viz. 16th May, 2024, 13th August, 2024, 6th November, 2024 
and 12th February, 2025.
	
Details of attendance at the Audit Committee meetings are tabulated below:
Sr. 
No.
Date of Meeting
Category
16th May, 
2024
13th August, 
2024
6th November, 
2024
12th February, 
2025
No. of Meeting / 
Name of Directors
52nd 
53rd 
54th 
55th 
1.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
Non-executive, 
Independent
2.
Mr. Soumendra Basu
Non-executive, 
Independent
3.
Ms. Anjali Seth
Non-executive, 
Independent
- Presence of Directors
4.	
NOMINATION 
AND 
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE:
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) 
of the Company is constituted in compliance with the 
provisions of Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of 
the Listing Regulations.
	
As on 31st March, 2025, NRC comprised following Directors 
as its members:
	
i.	
Ms. Anjali Seth, Chairperson;
	
ii.	
Mr. Soumendra Basu; and
	
iii.	
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee.
	
All 
the 
NRC 
members 
are 
Non-executive 
Independent Directors.
	
Mr. Sunil Lalai, Company Secretary and Executive Vice 
President – Legal, acts as a Secretary to the NRC.
	
The terms of reference of the NRC are as under:
	
1.	
Formulation of criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of a director 
and recommend to the Board a policy relating to 
the remuneration of the directors, key managerial 
personnel and other employees;
	
2.	
Formulation of criteria for evaluation of performance 
of independent directors and the Board;
	
3.	
Devising a policy on diversity of the Board;
113 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Date of Meeting
Category
24th April, 
2024
16th May, 
2024
13th August, 
2024
No. of Meeting / 
Name of Directors
22nd 
23rd 
24th 
1.
Ms. Anjali Seth
Non-executive, Independent
2.
Mr. Soumendra Basu
Non-executive, Independent
3.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
Non-executive, Independent
	
4.	
Identifying persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be appointed in senior management in accordance 
with the established criteria, and recommending to the Board their appointment and removal;
	
5.	
Reviewing succession plans of Board members, key managerial personnel and senior management employees;
	
6.	
Deciding whether to extend or continue the term of appointment of the independent director, on the basis of the report 
of performance evaluation of independent directors; and
	
7.	
Carry out any other functions as provided under the Act and the Listing Regulations and other applicable laws.
	
During the financial year 2024-25, the NRC met three times viz. 24th April, 2024, 16th May, 2024 and 13th August, 2024.
	
Details of attendance at the NRC meetings are tabulated below:
- Presence of Directors
	
Performance evaluation criteria for the Independent 
Directors:
	
In terms of Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 read 
with Schedule II to the Listing Regulations, the NRC has laid 
down the criteria for performance evaluation of the Board 
as a whole, its Committees and individual directors. Based 
thereon, the evaluation was carried out by the Board.
	
The performance evaluation of individual directors and the 
assessment of the Committees’ and Board’s effectiveness 
for the financial year 2024-25 was conducted. Based 
thereon, the Board at its meeting held on 9th April, 2025, 
reviewed the performance assessment of the Board and 
its Committees. Feedback on performance of individual 
directors was given separately.
	
The criteria for performance evaluation forms part 
of the Nomination and Remuneration Policy (“NR 
Policy”) of the Company, which is placed on the 
Company’s 
website 
at 
https://www.endurancegroup.
com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Nomination-and-
Remuneration-Policy-2025.pdf
	
Remuneration of Directors:
i.	
Criteria for making payment to Non-executive 
Directors:
	
	
Non-executive Directors are professionals with 
rich domain knowledge having diversified industry 
experience. Based on the nature of expertise, they 
advise the Board from an external perspective 
on critical matters brought to their attention. 
As Non-Executive Directors, they fulfil their duties by 
proficiently bringing objectivity during discussions in 
the Board and Committee meetings.
	
	
The Company makes payment of remuneration, by 
way of commission, to Non-executive Directors as per 
the NR Policy of the Company, for their contribution 
as members of the Board and Committees.
	
ii.	
The NR Policy of the Company, inter alia, contains 
the criteria for making payments to the directors, 
key managerial personnel and senior management 
employees, and is placed on the Company’s 
website 
at 
https://www.endurancegroup.com/
wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Nomination-and-
Remuneration-Policy-2025.pdf
	
Details of remuneration to directors:
	
Executive Directors are paid remuneration in the form of 
fixed pay, allowances, performance based incentives (variable 
component based on the profits of the Company and 
individual performance), perquisites and other benefits, as 
approved by the Board under the authority of the shareholders 
of the Company. Subject to the applicable laws, they are 
entitled to superannuation benefits from an approved life 
insurance company, which forms part of their perquisites. 
Annual increment is decided by the Board, based on the 
recommendation of the NRC, within the limits stipulated under 
Section 197(1) of the Act as approved by the shareholders of 
the Company and is effective from 1st April of every year. No 
pension is paid to any Directors of the Company. 
114  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
	
Service of the Executive Directors may be terminated by 
either party, subject to giving notice period specified in 
their Agreement or by the Company providing salary in lieu 
of such notice. There is no separate provision for payment 
of severance compensation.
	
The shareholders, in the Extra-Ordinary General Meeting 
of the Company held on 29th June, 2016, approved the 
payment of remuneration by way of commission to Non-
executive Directors within the ceiling of 1% of net profits of 
the Company as computed under the applicable provisions 
of the Act. The said commission is decided every year by 
the Board and paid to the Non-executive Directors. The 
commission is paid after the audited financial statements 
of the respective year are adopted by the shareholders in 
the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
	
In addition to the commission, Non-executive Directors 
are also paid sitting fees as per below table, for the Board, 
Committee and other meetings attended by them.
Meeting of
Sitting fees 
paid for each 
meeting 
attended
Board
H 80,000
Audit Committee
H 80,000
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
H 60,000
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
H 60,000
Risk Management Committee
H 70,000
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
H 40,000
Independent Directors
H 40,000
	
The Company has not granted any stock options to the 
Directors and hence, it does not form part of the remuneration 
package payable to any Director. During the year under 
review, the Company did not advance any loan to any Director 
or firm(s) / company(ies) in which Directors are interested.
	
Remuneration drawn by Directors during the financial year 2024-25 is as under:
(Amount in H million)
Name of 
Director
Category
Salary & 
Allowances*
Perquisites
PF & other 
contributions Commission
Sitting 
Fees
Others
Total
Mr. Anurang 
Jain
Managing Director, 
Executive and Promoter
65.09
5.65
4.07
-
-
-
74.81
Mr. Ramesh 
Gehaney
Director and Chief 
Operating Officer, Executive 
(upto 5th June, 2024)
9.24
-
19.83
-
-
5.00
34.07
Mr. Satrajit Ray Director and Group Chief 
Financial Officer, Executive 
(up to 5th June, 2024) 
Non-executive, Non- 
Independent (from 6th June, 
2024)
10.06
0.06
14.3
2.62
0.28
5.00
32.32
Mrs. Varsha 
Jain
Director and Head – CSR 
and Facility Management, 
Executive
17.47
0.01
0.73
-
-
-
18.21
Mr. Massimo 
Venuti
Non-executive, Non- 
Independent
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Roberto 
Testore
Non-executive, 
Independent (upto 31st 
August, 2024)
-
-
-
1.33
0.27
-
1.60
Mr. 
Soumendra 
Basu
Non-executive, 
Independent
-
-
-
4.00
1.15
-
5.15
Ms. Anjali Seth Non-executive, 
Independent
-
-
-
3.40
0.97
-
4.37
Mr. Indrajit 
Banerjee
Non-executive, 
Independent
-
-
-
3.60
1.02
-
4.62
Mr. Anant 
Talaulicar
Non-executive, 
Independent
-
-
-
3.20
0.43
-
3.63
115 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
(Amount in H million)
Name of 
Director
Category
Salary & 
Allowances*
Perquisites
PF & other 
contributions Commission
Sitting 
Fees
Others
Total
Mr. Rajendra 
Abhange
Director and Chief 
Operating Officer (effective 
from 6th June, 2024)
19.39
0.39
1.07
-
-
-
20.85
Mr. Alfredo 
Altavilla
Non-executive, 
Independent (effective from 
1st September, 2024)
-
-
-
1.75
0.16
-
1.91
	
* This includes variable pay of Mr. Gehaney, Mr. Ray and Mrs. Jain paid in the financial year 2024-25 which was H 1.29 million, H 1.32 million and H 2.89 
million, respectively.
	
Notes: 
	
i.	
During the financial year 2024-25, the remuneration 
paid to the Executive and Non-executive Directors of 
the Company was within the ceiling prescribed under 
Section 197 of the Act. This was based on the profit 
computed as per Section 198 of the Act, which was 
H 9,085.43 million.
	
ii.	
The Managing Director of the Company has 
relinquished his right to receive commission for the 
financial year 2024-25.
	
iii.	
Apart from sitting fees and remuneration by way of 
commission to Independent Directors, none of the 
Independent Directors had pecuniary relationship 
with the Company.
5.	
CORPORATE 
SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY 
COMMITTEE:
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee 
is constituted in compliance with the provisions of Section 
135 of the Act.
	
As on 31st March, 2025, the CSR Committee comprised 
following Directors as its members:
	
i.	
Mr. Anurang Jain, Chairman;
	
ii.	
Mr. Soumendra Basu; 
	
iii.	
Mr. Ramesh Gehaney (up to 5th June, 2024); 
	
iv.	
Mrs. Varsha Jain; and
	
v.	
Mr. Rajendra Abhange (co-opted as a member with 
effect from 6th June, 2024).
	
Mr. Sunil Lalai, Company Secretary and Executive Vice 
President - Legal, acts as a Secretary to the CSR Committee.
	
The terms of reference of the CSR Committee are as follows:
	
i.	
Formulate and recommend to the Board, revisions to 
the CSR Policy;
	
ii.	
Recommend activities to fulfil the CSR obligations 
as prescribed under Section 135 of the Act and 
rules thereunder;
	
iii.	
Formulate and recommend to the Board, an annual 
action plan or any revision thereto, in pursuance of its 
CSR Policy, which shall include the following, namely:
	
	
a.	
the list of CSR projects or programmes that are 
approved to be undertaken in areas or subjects 
specified in Schedule VII to the Act;
	
	
b.	
the 
manner 
of 
execution 
of 
such 
projects or programmes;
	
	
c.	
the 
modalities 
of 
utilisation 
of 
funds 
and 
implementation 
schedules 
for 
the 
projects or programmes;
	
	
d.	
monitoring and reporting mechanism for 
projects or programmes; and
	
	
e.	
details of need and impact assessment, if any, 
for the projects undertaken by the Company.
	
iv.	
Monitor and review the progress of CSR projects 
approved by the Board and recommend revision / 
course correction, if any; and
	
v.	
Any 
other 
term 
of 
reference 
as 
may 
be 
mandated by the Board.
	
During the financial year 2024-25, the CSR Committee 
met four times viz. on 15th May, 2024, 12th August, 2024, 6th 
November, 2024, and 12th February, 2025.
116  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
	
Details of attendance at the CSR Committee meetings are tabulated below:
Sr. 
No.
Date of Meeting
Category
15th May, 
2024
12th August, 
2024
6th November, 
2024
12th February, 
2025
No. of Meeting / 
Name of Directors
29th 
30th 
31st 
32nd
1.
Mr. Anurang Jain
Managing Director, Executive and 
Promoter
2.
Mr. Soumendra Basu Non-executive, Independent
3.
Mr. Ramesh 
Gehaney
Director and Chief Operating Officer, 
Executive (up to 5th June, 2024)
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
4.
Mrs. Varsha Jain
Director and Head – CSR and 
Facility Management, Executive
5.
Mr. Rajendra 
Abhange 
Director and Chief Operating Officer, 
Executive (from 6th June, 2024)
Not 
Applicable
Sr. 
No.
Date of Meeting
Category
24th April, 2024
13th August, 2024
No. of Meeting /  
Name of Directors
16th
17th 
1.
Ms. Anjali Seth
Non-executive, Independent
2.
Mr. Anurang Jain
Managing Director, Executive and 
Promoter
3.
Mr. Satrajit Ray
Non-executive, non-independent
- Presence of Directors
6.	
STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE:
	
The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee (“SRC”) is constituted in compliance with the provisions of Section 178(5) of the Act 
and Regulation 20 of the Listing Regulations. 
	
As on 31st March, 2025, the SRC comprised following Directors as its members:
	
i.	
Ms. Anjali Seth, Chairperson;
	
ii.	
Mr. Anurang Jain; and 
	
iii.	
Mr. Satrajit Ray.
	
Mr. Sunil Lalai, Company Secretary and Executive Vice President - Legal, is the Compliance Officer of the Company and acts as 
a Secretary to the SRC.
	
The terms of reference of the SRC are as under:
	
1.	
Enquiry into and redressal of grievances of shareholders / security holders and investors of the Company including 
complaints related to transfer / transmission / transposition of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared 
dividends, general meeting related, etc.
	
2.	
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders of the Company.
	
3.	
Review of service standards of the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent appointed by the Company.
	
4.	
Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the Company for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends 
and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants / annual reports / statutory notices by shareholders of the Company; and
	
5.	
Carry out any other function as prescribed under the Listing Regulations, the Act and other applicable law(s). 
	
During financial year 2024-25, SRC met twice viz. on 24th April, 2024 and 13th August, 2024. 
	
Details of attendance at the SRC meetings are tabulated below:
- Presence of Directors
117 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Date of Meeting
Category
23rd April, 2024
6th November, 2024
No. of Meeting / 
Name of Directors
12th
13th
1.
Mr. Anurang Jain
Managing Director, Executive and 
Promoter
2.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
Non-executive, Independent Director
3.
Mr. Ramesh Gehaney 
Director and Chief Operating Officer, 
Executive (up to 5th June, 2024)
Not Applicable
4.
Mr. Satrajit Ray 
Director and Group Chief Financial 
Officer, Executive (up to 5th June, 2024)
Not Applicable
5.
Mr. Rajendra Abhange 
Director and Chief Operating Officer, 
Executive (from 6th June, 2024)
Not Applicable
6.
Mr. R. S. Raja Gopal Sastry 
Group Chief Financial Officer 
(from 6th February, 2024)
Not Applicable
	
Investor grievance and other communication:
	
The communication(s) and / or correspondence received 
during the financial year 2024-25, were pertaining to:
	
a.	
Non-receipt / request for hard copy of Annual Report 
of the Company; and
	
b.	
Non-receipt 
of 
dividend 
/ 
revalidation 
of 
dividend warrant.
	
During the year, the Company did not receive any investor 
query / complaint and as on 31st March, 2025, there were no 
pending issues to be addressed or resolved.
	
Demat suspense account:
	
During the financial year 2016-17, the Company offered 
its equity shares of H 10/- each for subscription by the 
public, by way of Initial Public Offering (Offer for Sale) 
by shareholders of the Company. All equity shares of the 
Company are in dematerialised form. As on date, there are 
no unclaimed shares, hence, the Company has not opened 
a Demat Suspense Account.
7.	
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:
	
The Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) of the 
Company is constituted in compliance with Regulation 21 
of the Listing Regulations.
	
As on 31st March, 2025, the RMC comprised following 
Directors as its members:
	
i.	
Mr. Anurang Jain, Chairman;
	
ii.	
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee;
	
iii.	
Mr. R. S. Raja Gopal Sastry; 
	
iv.	
Mr. Ramesh Gehaney (up to 5th June, 2024);
	
v.	
Mr. Satrajit Ray (up to 5th June, 2024); and
	
vi.	
Mr. Rajendra Abhange (co-opted as a member with 
effect from 6th June, 2024).
	
The terms of reference of the RMC are as under:
	
i.	
Review risk management policy and recommend 
changes, if any, to the Board of Directors for approval;
	
ii.	
Oversee implementation of the risk management 
framework covering material risks to which the 
organisation is exposed to inter alia encompassing 
sustainability 
(particularly, 
ESG 
related 
risks), 
information, cyber security risks, business continuity 
plan or any other risks and ensuring implementation 
of appropriate mitigation plan;
	
iii.	
Reviewing the adequacy of the risk management 
framework and ensuring its effectiveness;
	
iv.	
Review any statutory requirements on sustainability 
reporting by the Company and keep the Board of 
Directors informed about the recommendations and 
actions to be taken; and
	
v.	
Such other activities as the Board of Directors may 
entrust, from time to time.
	
During the financial year 2024-25, the RMC met twice on 
23rd April, 2024 and 6th November, 2024. 
	
Details of attendance at the RMC meetings are tabulated below:
- Presence of Directors and Members
118  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
Recommendations made by the above Committees, 
which were not accepted by the Board:
	
During the year under review, there were no instances where 
the Board had not accepted any recommendation(s) made 
by the Committees of the Board. All the recommendations 
of the Committees were accepted by the Board.
8.	
OTHER COMMITTEE(S):
	
Finance Committee:
	
As on 31st March, 2025, the Finance Committee (“FC”) 
comprised following Directors as its members:
	
i.	
Mr. Anurang Jain, Chairman;
	
ii.	
Mr. R. S. Raja Gopal Sastry (co–opted as a member 
with effect from 6th June, 2024); and 
	
iii.	
Mr. Rajendra Abhange (co–opted as a member with 
effect from 6th June, 2024) 
	
The terms of reference of FC are as under:
	
i)	
To meet the fund requirements of the Company in the 
following manner:
	
	
a)	
through borrowings from banks and / or financial 
institutions; and
	
	
b)	
through issuance of Commercial Papers (“CPs”) 
to permitted classes of investors; 
	
	
up to an aggregate amount not exceeding 
H 12,500 million.
	
ii)	
To undertake following activities relating to admission, 
listing and withdrawal of CPs on BSE Limited (“BSE”) 
and / or National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(“NSE”) [BSE and NSE are collectively referred to as 
“Stock Exchanges”] and National Securities Depository 
Limited (“NSDL”) and / or Central Depository Services 
(India) Limited (“CDSL”) [NSDL and CDSL are 
collectively referred to as “Depositories”]:
	
	
a)	
to finalise, settle, approve, adopt and withdraw 
the Information Memorandum for listing of 
CPs issued by the Company, together with any 
addenda, corrigenda or supplements thereto 
(“Information Memorandum”) and authorise 
official(s) to sign the Information Memorandum 
and take all such actions as may be necessary 
for 
filing 
of 
these 
documents 
including 
incorporating such alterations / corrections / 
modifications as may be required;
	
	
b)	
to decide the persons to whom the CPs, as 
issued from time to time, have to be allotted;
	
	
c)	
to decide terms and conditions for buy-back of 
CPs issued from time to time;
	
	
d)	
to nominate / appoint / authorise official(s) 
or such other person(s) or intermediaries for 
admission, listing and withdrawal of CPs on the 
Stock Exchanges and Depositories;
	
	
e)	
to do all such deeds and acts as may be required 
and to sign and / or modify, as the case may be, 
agreements and / or such other documents 
as may be required with the Depositories, 
the Registrar and Transfer Agent appointed 
for purposes of listing of CPs and such other 
agencies as may be required in this connection, 
and the power to authorise one or more officers 
of the Company to execute all or any of the 
aforestated documents; 
	
	
f)	
to 
give 
such 
confirmations, 
declarations, 
certifications on behalf of the Board, as may be 
required under applicable laws, or as may be 
otherwise necessary or expedient in relation to 
the listing of CPs;
	
	
g)	
to authorise and approve the incurring of 
expenditure, including the payment of fees, 
commissions, remuneration and expenses in 
connection with the listing of CPs;
	
	
h)	
to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things 
and execute all such documents, etc. as it may, 
in its absolute discretion, deem necessary or 
desirable in connection with the listing of CPs;
	
	
i)	
to execute and deliver any and all other 
documents or instruments and to do or cause 
to be done any and all acts or things as it may 
deem necessary, appropriate or advisable in 
order to carry out the purposes and intent of 
the foregoing or in connection with the listing 
of CPs and any documents or instruments so 
executed and delivered or acts and things done 
or caused to be done by the Committee shall 
be conclusive evidence of the authority of the 
Committee in so doing; and
	
	
j)	
to delegate any of the above powers of FC to 
any of the Directors or officers of the Company.
	
	
During the financial year 2024-25, no meeting of 
FC was convened.
119 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
9.	
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS:
	
Details of the Annual General Meeting(s) (“AGM”) of the Company held during the preceding three years are tabulated below:
AGM
Date and time of AGM
Location
Details of special resolution(s) 
passed at the AGMs, if any
#23rd AGM
24th August, 2022 at 2.00 p.m.
E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, 
Aurangabad – 431 136 Maharashtra#
No special resolution was passed.
24th AGM
23rd August, 2023 at 11.30 a.m.
Tango Hall, Vivanta by Taj, 8-N-12, CIDCO, 
Dr. Rafiq Zakaria Marg, Rauza Bagh, 
Aurangabad – 431 003, Maharashtra
No special resolution was passed.
25th AGM
23rd August, 2024 at 11.30 a.m.
Tango Hall, Vivanta by Taj, 8-N-12, CIDCO, 
Dr. Rafiq Zakaria Marg, Rauza Bagh, Chh. 
Sambhajinagar (erstwhile Aurangabad)- 
431 003, Maharashtra
No special resolution was passed.
Date of Postal Ballot Notice
Date of commencement and 
conclusion of Postal ballot
Special Resolution passed
13th August, 2024
From 30th August, 2024 to 
28th September, 2024
Appointment of Mr. Alfredo Altavilla (DIN: 00366224) as 
an Independent Director of the Company.
	
#Meeting held through Video conferencing. Registered Office of the Company was deemed venue of the meeting.
	
During the financial year 2024-25, following special resolution was passed by way of Postal Ballot, by the Members of the Company: 
	
Procedure for Postal Ballot:
	
i.	
Mrs. Sarika Kulkarni, Practicing Company Secretary 
was appointed as Scrutiniser for scrutinising the 
process of Postal Ballot through remote e-voting;
	
ii.	
Dispatch 
of 
the 
Postal 
Ballot 
Notice 
dated 
13th August, 2024, along with the Explanatory 
Statement, to the members was completed on 
26th August, 2024;
	
iii.	
Remote e-voting through Postal Ballot commenced 
on 
30th 
August, 
2024 
and 
concluded 
on 
28th September, 2024;
	
iv.	
Based on the Scrutiniser’s Report, the results of the 
remote e-voting were declared on 30th September, 
2024. The resolution was passed with requisite majority 
(99.6% votes in favour whereas 0.4% votes against).
10.	 MEANS OF COMMUNICATION:
	
During the year under review, the Company published its 
quarterly financial results in Financial Express and Loksatta. 
Further, financial results of the quarter and half year 
ended 30th September and the quarter and year ended 
31st March are also published in Business Standard. 
	
In addition to the dissemination of financial results in 
newspaper publications, the senior management team 
of the Company also conducts conference call, after the 
financial results are published, to give an update on the 
operations and the financial performance of the Company.
	
The Company informs the Stock Exchanges, in a prompt 
manner, all the price sensitive information and such other 
matters which, in its opinion, are material and relevant for 
the shareholders of the Company.
	
The Company’s website link https://www.endurancegroup.
com/investor-relations, 
contains 
information 
as 
prescribed under the Act and the Listing Regulations, 
including the following:
	
i.	
Details of the contact person(s) of the Company, 
Registrar and Transfer Agent of the Company, 
shareholding pattern, etc. 
	
ii.	
Information published by the Company i.e. financial 
results and press release.
	
iii.	
Transcripts of conference calls, other communication(s) 
to Stock Exchanges and Corporate presentation 
containing 
updated 
information 
on 
financial 
performance and details relating to the Company 
and its subsidiaries, discussed with the institutional 
investors / analysts during meetings with them.
	
iv.	
Audio recordings of group meetings with institutional 
investors / analysts. 
120  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
11.	 GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION:
a)	
Twenty Sixth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”):
	
The date, time, and venue of the Twenty Sixth AGM of the Company is provided hereunder:
Date:
Wednesday, 13th August, 2025
Time:
4.00 p.m.
Venue:
Tango Hall, Gateway Aurangabad (formerly Vivanta by Taj), 8-N-12, CIDCO, Dr. Rafiq Zakaria Marg, Rauza Bagh, 
Chh. Sambhajinagar – 431 003, Maharashtra
b)	
Financial Year: Commencing from 1st April and ends on 31st March each year. 
Particulars
Date
Financial reporting for the:
1st quarter ending on 30th June, 2025
13th August, 2025
2nd quarter ending on 30th September, 2025
On or before 14th November, 2025
3rd quarter ending on 31st December, 2025
On or before 14th February, 2026
Financial year ending on 31st March, 2026
On or before 30th May, 2026
Sr. 
No.
Name
Address
1.
BSE Limited (“BSE”)
1st Floor, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400 001
2.
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(“NSE”)
Exchange Plaza, Bandra - Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400 051
c)	
Date of dividend payment: 
	
The dividend, if declared by the shareholders at the Twenty Sixth AGM, shall be paid on or after 18th August, 2025 but before 11th 
September, 2025.
d)	
Listing on the Stock Exchanges:
	
Equity shares of the Company are listed on the following Stock Exchanges:
	
The listing fee payable to BSE and NSE, for the financial year 2025-26, has been paid in full on 25th April, 2025 and 23rd April, 
2025, respectively.
	
The securities of the Company have never been suspended from trading on any of the Stock Exchanges.
e)	
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent:
	
The Company vide Agreement dated 15th October, 2016 has appointed the following agency to act as its Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent (“RTA”). The RTA is, inter alia, responsible for processing of requests pertaining to transmission / dematerialisation 
/ rematerialisation and other activities related thereto for both electronic and physical shareholdings. Further, RTA also handles 
corporate actions such as data requirements for conduct of AGMs, dividends, etc. The RTA corresponds with the depositories 
viz. NSDL and CDSL, in this regard. Address of the RTA is:
	
MUFG Intime India Private Limited 
	
(formerly Link Intime India Private Limited)
	
C 101, 1st Floor, C Tower, 247 Park, L B S Marg, 
	
Vikhroli West, 
	
Mumbai - 400 083 
	
Tel. No.: (0) 810 811 6767
	
Toll-free No.: 1800 1020 878
f)	
Share Transfer System:
	
In terms of Regulation 40(1) of the Listing Regulations, transfer of securities held in physical mode has been discontinued w.e.f. 
1st April, 2019. Accordingly, transfer of securities would be carried out only in dematerialised form. As on 31st March, 2025, entire 
shareholding of the Company is in dematerialised form. 
121 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
g)	
Distribution of Shareholding:
	
The below two tables provide details about the pattern of shareholding among various categories and number of shares held, 
as on 31st March, 2025:
	
Category Distribution:
Categories
31st March, 2025
No. of shares
Percentage
Promoter
43,396,896
30.9%
Promoter Group
 62,100,240
44.2%
Foreign Portfolio Investors (Corporate)
17,387,668
12.4%
Mutual Funds
8,890,003
6.3%
Other Bodies Corporate
6,571,366
4.6%
Other Public
2,316,675
1.6%
Total
140,662,848
100.00%
Particulars
Position as on 31st March, 2025
No. of shares
% to total 
shareholding
a.	 NSDL
139,549,920
99.2
b.	 CDSL
1,112,928
0.8
Total
140,662,848
100.00%
No. of shares held
No. of shareholders
Shares held in each class
Number
%
Number
%
1 to 500
85,959
99.3
1,794,437
1.2
501 to 1,000
232
0.3
174,072
0.1
1,001 to 2,000
106
0.2
152,320
0.1
2,001 to 3,000
29
0.0
73,423
0.1
3,001 to 4,000
19
0.0
66,954
0.1
4,001 to 5,000
19
0.0
85,090
0.1
5,001 to 10,000
27
0.0
210,034
0.2
10,001 and above
165
0.2
138,106,518
98.1
Total
86,556
100.00%
140,662,848
100.00%
	
Distribution of the Shareholding as on 31st March, 2025:
h)	
Dematerialisation / Rematerialisation of Shares and liquidity:
	
The Company’s shares are compulsorily tradable in dematerialised form on BSE and NSE, which provide sufficient liquidity to the 
investors. The Company has established connectivity with both the depositories i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
	
Shares held in dematerialised form as on 31st March, 2025 are given in the table below:
i)	
Outstanding Convertible instruments / ADRs / GDRs / Warrants:
	
The Company has not issued any convertible instruments / ADRs / GDRs / Warrants.
j)	
Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities:
	
Please refer to the Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the same. The Company has a Board approved Forex Risk 
Management Policy which lays down the principles for hedging of forex risk.
122  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
k)	
Address for correspondence:
	
Investors and shareholders can correspond with the RTA or the Company at the following addresses:
MUFG Intime India Private Limited 
Endurance Technologies Limited
C 101, 1st Floor, C Tower, 247 Park,
L B S Marg, Vikhroli West, 
Mumbai - 400 083, Maharashtra
Telephone - (0) 810 811 6767
Toll-free No.: 1800 1020 878
For requests pertaining to dematerialisation / rematerialisation:
Contact person: Mr. Subhash Jadhav
E-mail: dematremat@in.mpms.mufg.com
For grievance redressal and other requests:
Contact person: Mr. Ajay Jadhav
E-mail: rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com
E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar – 431 
136, Maharashtra
Contact person:
Mr. Sunil Lalai, Company Secretary and Executive Vice 
President – Legal and Compliance Officer
Telephone: +91 (240) 2569600
Facsimile: +91 (240) 2551703
E-mail: investors@endurance.co.in
l)	
Plant Locations:
	
The Company has its manufacturing facilities located at:
Sr. 
No.
Plant Address
Sr. 
No.
Plant Address
1.
Plot No. B-2, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, 
Chh. Sambhajinagar - 431 136 Maharashtra.
2.
Plot No. E-92 and E-93, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Chh. 
Sambhajinagar – 431 136 Maharashtra.
3.
Plot No. K-120, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, 
Chh. Sambhajinagar - 431 136 Maharashtra.
4.
Plot No. K-226/1 and K-227, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, 
Chh. Sambhajinagar - 431 136 Maharashtra.
5.
Plot No. K-226/2, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, 
Chh. Sambhajinagar - 431 136 Maharashtra.
6.
Plot No. K-228 and K-229, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Chh. 
Sambhajinagar - 431 136 Maharashtra.
7.
Plot No. L-6/3, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, 
Chh. Sambhajinagar - 431 136 Maharashtra.
8.
Plot No. L-6/3/1 & 2, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Chh. 
Sambhajinagar - 431 136 Maharashtra.
9.
Plot No. L-20, MIDC Industrial Area, Vitawa Village, 
Gangapur, Tal. Chh. Sambhajinagar – 431 109 
Maharashtra. 
10.
E-71, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar 
- 431 136 Maharashtra.
11.
Plot No. B-1/2 and 1/3, MIDC Industrial Area, 
Chakan, Village Nighoje, Taluka Khed, Dist. Pune - 
410 501 Maharashtra.
12.
Plot No. B-20, MIDC Industrial Area, Chakan, Village 
Nighoje, Taluka Khed, Dist. Pune - 410 501 Maharashtra.
13.
Plot Nos. B-22 and A-12, MIDC Industrial Area, 
Chakan, Village Nighoje, Taluka Khed, Dist. Pune - 
410 501 Maharashtra.
14.
Plot No. 3 & 7, Sector 10, I.I.E. Pantnagar, Dist. U.S. Nagar - 
263 153 Uttarakhand.
15.
Plot No. F-82, SIPCOT Industrial Park, 
Irungattaukottai, Pennaur Post, Shriperumburam 
Taluk, Kancheepuram Dist., Chennai - 602 105 Tamil 
Nadu. 
16.
G-102 and 103, SIPCOT Industrial Park, Vallam 
Vadagal Scheme, Village Vallam, Sriperumbudur, Dist. 
Kancheepuram, Chennai – 602 105 Tamil Nadu.
17.
Plot No. E4 and E21, GIDC, Phase 2, Industrial 
Estate, Sanand, Ahmedabad - 382 110 Gujarat
18.
Plot 103/6, GIDC, Halol - 2 and Halol Maswad Industrial 
Estate, Ta – Halol, Dist. Panchmahal - 389 350 Gujarat.
19.
Survey Nos. 28/4A, 28/4B, 28/5, 28/6, 28/7, 28/8 
and 34/5, within village limit of Karinayakanahalli, 
Kasaba Hobli, Malur Taluka, Kolar District, 563 130 
Karnataka.
123 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
12.	 OTHER DISCLOSURES:
a)	
Related party transactions:
	
There were no related party transactions (“RPTs”) entered 
into by the Company, during the year under review, which 
attracted the provisions of Section 188 of the Act. There is 
no material RPT to be reported in terms of Regulation 23 
of the Listing Regulations and hence there are no details to 
be disclosed in Form AOC-2. During the year under review, 
there were no material transactions entered into with 
related parties, which may have had any potential conflict 
with the interests of the Company.
	
During the year under review, as required under Section 
177 of the Act and Regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations, 
all RPTs were placed before the Audit Committee for 
approval. A statement tabulating the value and nature of 
transactions with related parties as required under Indian 
Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24 is set out separately 
under Note no. 34 to the standalone financial statements 
in this Annual Report.
	
The ‘Policy on Determining Materiality of and Dealing with 
Related Party Transactions’ is placed on the Company’s 
website at -https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/
uploads/2022/11/Policy-on-Determining-Materiality-of-
and-Dealing-with-Related-Party-Transactions-1.pdf
b)	
Details of capital market non-compliance(s), if any:
	
There has been no non-compliance by the Company 
nor has there been any penalty / stricture imposed on 
the Company by any stock exchange, SEBI or any other 
statutory authority on any matter related to capital markets, 
during the last three years.
c)	
Vigil Mechanism–cum–Whistle Blower Policy:
	
Pursuant to Section 177(9) of the Act and Regulation 
22 of the Listing Regulations, the Company has a Board 
adopted Vigil Mechanism–cum–Whistle Blower Policy that 
provides a mechanism for directors, employees and other 
stakeholders of the Company to report violations, any 
unethical behaviour, suspected or actual fraud, violation 
to the Code of Conduct of the Directors and Senior 
Management Personnel and Endurance Code of Conduct 
for Employees, leak / suspected leak of Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information etc. which could be detrimental 
to the organisation’s interest. The mechanism protects 
whistle blower from any kind of discrimination, harassment, 
victimisation or any other unfair employment practice. 
The Company affirms that no personnel has been denied 
access to the Audit Committee. 
	
The aforesaid Policy is placed on the Company’s 
website 
at 
https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-
content/uploads/2022/11/vigil-mechanism-cum-whistle-
blower-policy.pdf
d)	
Disclosure of material transactions:
	
In terms of Regulation 26(5) of the Listing Regulations, 
senior management gives disclosure to the Board relating 
to all material financial and commercial transactions, if any, 
where they had personal interest that might have been in 
potential conflict with the interest of the Company. Based 
on disclosures received, none of the officials in senior 
management team of the Company have personal interest 
in any financial or commercial transactions that may have 
potential conflict with the interest of the Company.
e)	
Disclosure under the Sexual Harassment of Women 
at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013
No. of complaints filed during the financial year
5
No. of complaints disposed of during the 
financial year
5
No. of complaints pending at the end of the 
financial year
0
f)	
Fee paid to the Statutory Auditors:
	
Please refer Note no. 23 of the consolidated financial 
statements, in this Annual Report, for details of the fees 
paid to the Statutory Auditors.
g)	
Compliance 
of 
mandatory 
and 
discretionary 
requirements:
	
Mandatory:
	
The Company has complied with the mandatory 
requirements of the Listing Regulations.
	
Discretionary:
	
I.	
The Board:
	
	
The Company has a Non-executive Independent 
Director as Chairman of its Board.
	
II.	
Shareholders’ rights:
	
	
To ensure dissemination of the Company’s financial 
results to its shareholders, the Company publishes 
quarterly, half-yearly and annual results in newspapers 
having wide circulation in India and particularly in 
Chh. Sambhajinagar, where the registered office 
of the Company is located. These results are also 
filed with the Stock Exchanges and uploaded on 
the Company’s website immediately after the Board 
meeting. The Company also organises quarterly 
conference call to address investor queries related to 
the financial results or its business operations.
	
III.	
Modified opinion(s) in audit report: 
	
	
The Company confirms that its financial statements 
are with unmodified audit opinion.
124  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
IV.	
Separate posts of Chairman and Managing Director:
	
	
The Company has appointed separate persons to the posts of Chairman and Managing Director.
V.	
Reporting of Internal Auditor:
	
	
The Internal Auditor functionally reports to the Audit Committee and administratively reports to the Managing Director.
h)	
Subsidiary companies:
	
The Company has nine overseas subsidiaries and one Indian subsidiary, as at 31st March, 2025 viz.
Sr. 
No.
Name
CIN / GLN
Type of subsidiary pursuant to 
Regulation 16(1)(c) of the Listing 
Regulations. i.e. [Material or otherwise]
1.
Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy  
(Formerly Endurance Overseas Srl)
N.A.
Material*
2.
Endurance SpA, Italy
N.A.
Material*
3.
Endurance Engineering Srl, Italy
N.A.
Otherwise
4.
Endurance Castings SpA, Italy
N.A.
Otherwise
5.
Veicoli Srl, Italy
N.A.
Otherwise
6.
Endurance Two Wheelers SpA, Italy 
(formerly known as Endurance Adler SpA)
N.A.
Otherwise
7.
Ingenia Automation Srl, Italy
N.A.
Otherwise
8.
GDS Sarl, Hammas Sousse, Tunisia
N.A.
Otherwise
9.
Endurance GmbH, Germany
N.A.
Otherwise
10.
Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited, India 
(“Maxwell”)
U72900MH2017PTC298930
Otherwise
	
N.A.= Not Applicable
	
*Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy and Endurance GmbH, Germany are the direct subsidiaries of the Company. Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy is the 
direct holding company of the bodies corporate mentioned from Sr. nos. 2 – 7 and Endurance Two Wheelers SpA, Italy is direct holding company of 
GDS Sarl, Tunisia.
	
Based on the consolidated financial statements for the financial year 2024-25, in terms of Regulation 16(1)(c) of the Listing Regulations, Endurance SpA, Italy 
(Standalone) and Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy (consolidated) are the material subsidiaries of the Company.
	
Endurance Overseas Srl, Italy has converted its status from ‘limited liability’ company to ‘public limited’ company with effect from 
20th January, 2025, thereby changing its name to Endurance Overseas SpA.
	
During the year under review, following corporate action took place with respect to the subsidiaries of the Company:
	
a)	
Purchase of additional 5.5% stake in Maxwell
	
	
The Company, on 31st July, 2024, acquired additional 5.5% stake in Maxwell, through secondary purchase, for an aggregate 
value of H 7,535 for 7,535 equity shares of face value Re. 1 each. With this additional stake, the shareholding of the Company 
stood at 61.5% in Maxwell, comprising 84,258 equity shares of face value Re.1 each.
	
b)	
Purchase of 100% Shares of Ingenia Automation Srl, Italy by Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy 
	
	
The Company’s direct subsidiary Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy, acquired 100% shares of Ingenia Automation Srl, Italy 
(“Ingenia”) on 31st May, 2024 for Euro 3.6 million. Ingenia operates in the design, production and installation of industrial 
automation systems. This acquisition makes Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy the direct holding company of Ingenia.
	
c)	
Merger of Frenotecnica Srl and New Fren Srl with Endurance Adler SpA
	
	
In order to simplify the group structure in Italy and for creating a pool for two wheeler aftermarket brands under a single 
entity in Italy, the merger of Frenotecnica Srl and New Fren Srl, direct subsidiaries of Endurance Overseas, SpA with 
Endurance Adler SpA, was approved with effect from 1st January, 2025.
125 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Name
Date of 
Incorporation
Place of Incorporation
Name of the Statutory 
Auditor
Date of 
appointment of the 
Statutory Auditor
1.
Endurance Overseas 
SpA, Italy
14th May, 2007
Via Del Boschetto n. 2/43-
10040 Lombardore (TO)
Deloitte & Touche SpA 
Via Tortona 25 20144
30th June, 2020
2.
Endurance SpA, Italy
21st January, 1977
Via Regione Pozzo n. 26, 
Chivasso (Italy)
Deloitte & Touche SpA 
Via Tortona 25 20144
30th June, 2020
	
d)	
Liquidation of GDS Sarl, Tunisia
	
	
Shareholders of GDS Sarl, Tunisia has passed a resolution on 23rd September, 2024, for its voluntary liquidation, which 
is under process.
	
Material Subsidiaries:
	
The Company has (two) material subsidiaries as at 31st March, 2025 viz. Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy and Endurance SpA, Italy:
Materiality threshold: 
	
The Company’s Policy for Determining Material Subsidiaries 
is placed on its website at - https://www.endurancegroup.
com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Policy-for-determining-
Material-Subsidiaries-2025.pdf
	
Independent Director on the Board of Material 
Subsidiaries: 
	
In terms of Regulation 24(1) of the Listing regulations, at least 
one independent director on the Board of the Company is 
required to be appointed on the board of directors of its 
‘material’ subsidiaries. Accordingly, Board at its meeting 
held on 7th February, 2019, had approved the appointment 
of Mr. Roberto Testore, Independent Director on the Board 
of material subsidiaries viz. Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy 
(“EOSpA”) and Endurance SpA, Italy (”ESpA”). Mr. Roberto 
Testore resigned and is not associated with the Company 
with effect from 31st August, 2024. 
	
Based on financial statements for the financial year ended 
31st March, 2024, none of the overseas subsidiary qualified 
to be a ‘material’ subsidiary of the Company. However, 
considering that the overseas subsidiaries contribute more 
than twenty percent of the Company’s total income and net 
worth, on a consolidated basis, the Board at its meeting 
held on 6th November, 2024, approved the appointment of 
Mr. Alfredo Altavilla as a Director on the Board of the two 
subsidiaries viz. EOSpA and ESpA.
	
Provisions 
to 
the 
extent 
applicable 
under 
the 
Listing 
Regulations 
with 
reference 
to 
subsidiaries 
were duly complied.
i)	
Policy on dealing with the related party transactions:
	
A Policy on Determining Materiality of and Dealing with 
Related Party Transactions is placed on the Company’s 
website at https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/
uploads/2022/11/Policy-on-Determining-Materiality-of-
and-Dealing-with-Related-Party-Transactions-1.pdf
	
In terms of Regulation 76 of the SEBI (Depositories 
and Participants) Regulations, 2018, the Company has 
submitted, to the Stock Exchanges on a quarterly basis, 
the Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report, duly 
audited by a Practicing Company Secretary. This audit 
report confirms reconciliation of share capital held with 
the depositories i.e. NSDL and CDSL with the issued and 
listed share capital.
j)	
Senior Management:
	
Below are the details pertaining to the senior management 
of the Company and changes therein, during the 
year under review:
	
a.	
Mr. 
R. 
S. 
Raja 
Gopal 
Sastry, 
Group 
Chief 
Financial Officer;
	
b.	
Mr. Sunil Kolhe, Chief Sourcing Officer;
	
c.	
Mr. Prabhas Dash, President – Aftermarket;
	
d.	
Mr. Nilesh Phanse, President – Operations (up to 31st 
December, 2024);
	
e.	
Mr. Murali Krishna Gangasetty, Cluster Business Head, 
Plant Operations;
	
f.	
Mr. 
K. 
Srinivasan, 
Cluster 
Business 
Head, 
Plant Operations;
	
g.	
Mr. Ramanamurthy Neti, Cluster Business Head, 
Plant Operations;
	
h.	
Mr. Sanjay Sanghai, Head - Strategic Sourcing; 
	
i.	
Mr. Sunil Lalai, Company Secretary and Executive Vice 
President – Legal;
	
j.	
Mr. Raj Kumar Mundra, Treasurer and Head – 
Investor Relations;
	
k.	
Mrs. Rhea Jain Kapoor, Vice President – Strategic 
Projects and Business Controller; and
	
l.	
Mr. Rohan Jain, Vice President – Products and Strategy.
126  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
13.	 A	
Disclosures of the compliance with Corporate 
Governance under Regulations 17 to 27 of 
the Listing Regulations except those which are 
already disclosed elsewhere in this report:
i.	
Orderly succession to the Board and Senior 
Management:
	
	
	
In terms of Regulation 17(4) of the Listing 
Regulations, the Company has a process 
established for succession planning of the whole-
time directors and senior management team.
	
	
	
The Company adopts a competency-based 
approach by identifying critical roles and 
coaching employees to shoulder such critical 
positions. This ensures succession planning with 
an aim to align with the Company’s growth and 
strategic plans, employee engagement and skill-
development. The progress of such employees 
is monitored through structured individual 
development plans and the same is periodically 
reviewed by the senior management team 
comprising the Managing Director, respective 
Management Committee members and the 
Chief Human Resources Officer.
	
	
ii.	
Information provided to the Board:
	
	
	
Ahead of each meeting, the Board is presented 
with relevant information on various matters 
related to the working of the Company, especially 
those that are critical and require deliberation 
for arriving at a decision. Presentations are 
also made to the Board by function heads 
concerned on important matters from time to 
time. In addition to items which are required to 
be placed before the Board for its noting and 
/ or approval, information is provided in terms 
of the Listing Regulations on various other 
significant matters.
	
	
	
In terms of quality and importance, the 
information provided by the management to 
the Board, is precise and crisp with relevant 
details that are necessary for the directors to 
enable them fulfil their duties. The Independent 
Directors of the Company expressed satisfaction 
on the quality, quantity and timeliness of 
flow of information between the Company’s 
management and the Board, that is necessary 
for the Board to effectively and reasonably 
perform its duties.
	
	
iii.	
Compliance Certificate:
	
	
	
The Managing Director and the Group Chief 
Financial Officer have certified to the Board 
with regard to the financial statements and 
other matters as required under Regulation 
17(8), read with Part B of Schedule II to the 
Listing Regulations.
iv.	
Performance 
evaluation 
of 
Independent 
Directors:
	
	
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and 
Regulation 17(10) of the Listing Regulations, 
for the financial year 2024-25, the Board has 
carried out annual performance evaluation of 
Independent Directors, at its meeting held on 
9th April, 2025. The Board acknowledged that 
each of the Independent Directors effectively 
contributed in strengthening the performance 
of the Board and its respective Committees.
	
	
	
In terms of Section 149 read with Schedule IV to 
the Act, on the basis of the report of performance 
evaluation, the Board has to determine whether 
to extend or continue the term of appointment 
of Independent Director(s). During the year 
under review, there was no such occasion to 
decide on the extension or continuance of the 
term of appointment of any of the Independent 
Directors and hence, the question of taking a 
decision, in this regard, did not arise.
	
	
v.	
Independent Directors’ Meeting:
	
	
	
In compliance with Schedule IV to the Act and 
Regulation 25(3) of the Listing Regulations, the 
Independent Directors held a separate meeting 
on 23rd April, 2024, without the attendance of 
Non-Independent Directors and management. 
Agenda of the said meeting was to:
	
	
	
a.	
review 
the 
performance 
of 
Non-
Independent 
Directors 
and 
the 
Board, as a whole; 
	
	
	
b.	
review the performance of the Chairman 
of the Company, taking into account the 
views of the Whole-time Directors and the 
Non-executive Directors; and
	
	
	
c.	
assess the quality, quantity and timeliness 
of flow of information between the 
Company’s management and the Board 
that is necessary for the Board to effectively 
and reasonably perform their duties. 
vi.	
Report on Corporate Governance:
	
	
	
This section, read together with the information 
given in the Board’s Report, Management Discussion 
and Analysis section and General Shareholder 
Information, constitute the compliance report on 
Corporate Governance for the year under review. 
127 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance Report (Contd..)
The Company has been regularly submitting 
the quarterly compliance report to the Stock 
Exchanges as required under Regulation 27 of the 
Listing Regulations.
13.	 B 	
Disclosures under clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 
46(2) of the Listing Regulations:
i.	
Terms and Conditions of appointment of 
Independent Directors:
	
	
	
Board has incorporated the terms and conditions 
for appointment of Independent Directors in the 
manner as provided in the Act in a formal letter 
of appointment to the Independent Directors. 
	
	
	
As per Regulation 46(2) of the Listing Regulations, 
a draft letter of appointment to independent 
directors containing the terms and conditions 
of appointment is placed on the Company’s 
website at https://www.endurancegroup.com/
wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Draft-of-Letter-
of-Appointment.pdf
ii.	
Composition of various Committees:
	
	
	
The Board has constituted following Committees 
pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the 
Listing Regulations:
 
 
Audit Committee;
 
 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
 
 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee; 
 
 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee; 
and
 
 
Risk Management Committee.
	
	
	
Details about the composition of the aforesaid 
Committees are given in this report and 
also placed on the Company’s website at 
www.endurancegroup.com/investor-relations.
iii.	
Code of Conduct for Board and Senior 
Management Personnel
	
	
	
Regulation 17(5) of the Listing Regulations 
requires listed companies to lay down a 
Code of Conduct for its Directors and Senior 
Management Personnel, incorporating duties of 
directors as laid down in the Act.
	
	
	
As required under the aforesaid Regulation, the 
Board at its meeting held on 13th November, 
2013 had adopted a Code of Conduct for 
Directors and Senior Management Personnel of 
the Company (“Code”). 
	
	
	
Subsequently, the Board at its meeting held on 
12th February, 2025, adopted a revised Code and 
the same has been placed on the website of the 
Company at https://www.endurancegroup.com/
wp-content/uploads/2022/11/code-of-conduct-
for-directors-and-smp-april-2024.pdf
	
	
	
The Company has also framed Endurance Code 
of Conduct applicable to all its employees.
	
	
	
All the Board Members, senior management 
personnel and employees of the Company 
have affirmed compliance with the respective 
Codes of Conduct for the financial year 2024-
25. A declaration to this effect, signed by the 
Managing Director, is given in this Annual Report.
iv.	
Vigil Mechanism–cum–Whistle Blower Policy:
	
	
	
Refer item no. “12 (c)” of this report.
v.	
Criteria of making payments to Non-executive 
Directors:
	
	
	
Refer item no. “4(i)” of this report.
vi.	
Policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries:
	
	
	
Refer item no. “12(h)” of this report.
vii.	 Policy 
on 
dealing 
with 
related 
party 
transactions:
	
	
	
Refer item no. “12(i)” of this report.
viii.	 Details of familiarisation programs imparted 
to Independent Directors:
	
	
	
Refer item no. “2(f)” of this report.
ix.	
Disclosure of Agreements binding on the 
Company: 
	
	
	
No such agreement entered by the Promoter.
x.	
Information disclosed under Clause 5A of 
para A of Part A of Schedule III of the Listing 
Regulations: 
	
	
	
No such agreement entered.
INDEPENDENT 
AUDITOR’S 
REPORT 
ON 
COMPLIANCE 
WITH 
THE 
CONDITIONS 
OF 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.
The Company has obtained a Report on compliance with the 
conditions of Corporate Governance from the Statutory Auditors 
as per the provisions of Chapter IV of the Listing Regulations. 
This report is annexed to the Board’s Report and will be sent to 
the Stock Exchanges, along with the Annual Report to be filed.
128  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Declaration by the Managing Director
5th May, 2025
The Members, 
Endurance Technologies Limited, 
E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, 
Chh. Sambhajinagar – 431 136. 
Sub.: Declaration regarding compliance with the Company’s Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management Personnel. 
Ref.:	Regulation 34(3) read with Part D of Schedule V to the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. 
I, Anurang Jain, Managing Director of Endurance Technologies Limited, hereby declare that all the members of the Board of Directors 
and Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management 
Personnel of the Company. 
For Endurance Technologies Limited
Sd/- 
Anurang Jain 
Managing Director 
DIN: 00291662
129 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Compliance Certificate under Regulation 17(8) read with Part B of Schedule II to 
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
15th May, 2025 
The Members,
Endurance Technologies Limited,
E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, 
Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar – 431 136 
Sub.:	 Compliance Certificate under Regulation 17(8) read with Part B of Schedule II to the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
This is to certify that for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025: 
1.	
we have reviewed the financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year as aforesaid and to the best of our 
knowledge and belief: 
	
a.	
these financial statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements 
that might be misleading; 
	
b.	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS), applicable laws and regulations; 
2.	
to the best of our knowledge and belief, there are no transactions entered into by the Company during the year, that are 
fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s Code of Conduct for Directors and Employees; 
3.	
we accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have evaluated the 
effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and there were no deficiencies in the 
design or operation of such internal controls; and
4.	
we have indicated to the Statutory Auditors and the Audit Committee: 
	
a.	
that there were no significant changes in internal control over financial reporting, during the year;
	
b.	
all significant changes in the accounting policies during the year, if any, have been disclosed in the notes in respective place 
in the financial statements; and 
	
c.	
there were no instances of fraud, of which we have become aware of. 
For Endurance Technologies Limited
Sd/-	
Sd/- 
Anurang Jain	
R. S. Raja Gopal Sastry 
Managing Director	
Group Chief Financial Officer 
DIN: 00291662
130  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C Clause 10(i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015) 
To,
The Members,
Endurance Technologies Limited,
E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, 
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar – 431 136. 
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Endurance 
Technologies Limited bearing CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296 (hereinafter referred to as the Company), and having registered 
office at E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar – 431 136, produced before us by the Company, on the e-mail, 
for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications including Directors Identification Number 
(DIN) status at the portal (www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company and its 
officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ended on 
March 31, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India and the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other statutory authority:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
DIN
Original Date of 
appointment
1
Mr. Soumendra Mohan Basu
01125409
16/06/2010
2
Mr. Anurang Nareshchandra Jain 
00291662
27/12/1999
3
Mr. Rajendra Gopalrao Abhange
10632906
06/06/2024
4
Mr. Alfredo Altavilla
00366224
01/09/2024
5
Mr. Satrajit Ray
00191467
06/06/2014
6
Ms. Anjali Karamnarayan Seth
05234352
10/06/2016
7
Mr. Massimo Venuti
06889772
02/12/2016
8
Mrs. Varsha Anurang Jain
08947297
10/11/2020
9
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
01365405
09/02/2021
10
Mr. Anant Jaivant Talaulicar
00031051
12/07/2021
11
# Mr. Roberto Carlo Testore
01935704
17/10/2007
12
* Mr. Ramesh Gehaney
02697676
06/06/2014
Note:
# Mr. Roberto Carlo Testore (DIN: 01935704) ceased to be Director w.e.f. August 31, 2024. 
* Mr. Ramesh Gehaney (DIN: 02697676) ceased to be Whole Time Director w.e.f. June 05, 2024.
Ensuring the eligibility of the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as 
to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs 
of the Company.
For SVD & Associates
Company Secretaries
Sd/-
Meenakshi R. Deshmukh
Partner
FCS No. 7364
C P No. 7893
Place: Pune	
Peer Review No: 6357/2025
Date: May 15, 2025	
UDIN: F007364G000326518
131 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273
Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Financial 
Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
To
The Members of
Endurance Technologies Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the standalone financial statements of 
Endurance Technologies Limited (“the Company”), which 
comprise the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2025, the Statement of 
Profit and Loss, including the statement of Other Comprehensive 
Income, the Cash Flow Statement  and the Statement of Changes 
in Equity for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone 
financial statements, including a summary of material accounting 
policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us , the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013, as amended (“the Act”) in the manner 
so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of 
affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2025, its profit including 
other comprehensive income, its cash flows and the changes in 
equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements 
in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified 
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those 
Standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities 
for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements’ section of 
our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance 
with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that 
are relevant to our audit of the financial statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the 
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone 
financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
standalone financial statements for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2025. These matters were addressed in the context 
of our audit of the standalone financial statements as a whole, 
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. For the matter below, our 
description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided 
in that context.
We have determined the matter described below to be the key 
audit matter to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled 
the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities 
for the audit of the standalone financial statements section of 
our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, 
our audit included the performance of procedures designed to 
respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements. The results of our audit 
procedures, including the procedures performed to address the 
matter below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the 
accompanying standalone financial statements.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment assessment for investment in Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited 
(as described in Note 4 of the standalone financial statements)
The Company has investment of INR 1,425.62 million in equity 
shares of its subsidiary Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited 
(“Maxwell”) as at March 31, 2025.
As required by Ind AS 36 “Impairment of assets”, at each 
reporting period end, management assesses the existence of 
impairment indicators for investments in subsidiaries. In case of 
existence of impairment indicators, the investment balances are 
subjected to impairment test.
The recoverable amount of investment in subsidiary is 
determined based on the discounted cash flow model which has 
sensitivity around key assumptions such as operating margins, 
discount rate, terminal growth, etc. and involves significant 
judgements and estimates. 
This is considered as a key audit matter as the amount of 
investment in Maxwell is material to the standalone financial 
statements of the Company and the determination of
Our audit procedures included the following:
 
 
We obtained understanding of the Company’s process on 
assessment of impairment of investments and tested the 
design and operating effectiveness of the relevant controls 
over impairment assessment.
 
 
We evaluated the Company’s valuation methodology 
applied in determining the recoverable amount. We also 
assessed the objectivity and independence of Company’s 
external specialist involved in the process.
 
 
We involved valuation specialist, where necessary, to assist 
in assessing the appropriateness of the valuation model 
including the independent assessment of the underlying 
key assumptions relating to operating margins, discount 
rate and terminal growth.
133 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
recoverable value for impairment assessment involves significant 
management judgements and estimates.
 
 
We also assessed the recoverable value headroom by 
performing sensitivity testing of key assumptions used.
 
 
We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the models.
 
 
We assessed the adequacy of disclosures in the standalone 
financial statements.
Other Information
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other 
information. The other information comprises the Corporate 
Governance report (but does not include the standalone 
financial statements and our auditor's report thereon) which we 
obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, and the Board's 
Report, Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR), 
Management Discussion and Analysis and Corporate Overview, 
which is expected to be made available to us after that date.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not 
cover the other information, and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above and, in doing so, consider whether such other 
information is materially inconsistent with the standalone 
financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the audit 
or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on 
the work we have performed on the other information that we 
obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report 
in this regard.
When we read the Board's Report, Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report (BRSR), Management Discussion and 
Analysis and Corporate Overview, if we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate 
the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of the Management for the 
Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters 
stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation 
of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair 
view of the financial position, financial performance including 
other comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity 
of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read 
with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, 
as amended. This responsibility also includes maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the standalone financial statements that give a true and fair 
view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, management 
is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to 
going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting 
unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or 
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the 
Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and 
to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that 
an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually 
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
these standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
 
 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of 
the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive 
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The 
risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
 
 
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of 
the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
134  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
on whether the Company has adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements in place and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls.
 
 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by management.
 
 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of 
the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty 
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the financial statements 
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Company to 
cease to continue as a going concern.
 
 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, 
and 
whether 
the 
standalone 
financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, 
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the 
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant 
deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement 
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them 
all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be 
thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated in our 
report because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, 
we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the matters 
specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit;
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books. In 
so far as the modification on maintaining an audit 
trail in the accounting software is concerned, refer 
paragraph (i) (vi) on reporting under Rule 11(g);
(c)	
The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss 
including the Statement of Other Comprehensive 
Income, the Cash Flow Statement and Statement of 
Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account;
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended;
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on March 31, 2025, taken 
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the 
directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 
(2) of the Act;
(f)	
The modification arising from the maintenance of the 
audit trail on the accounting software, comprising 
the application and database are as stated in the 
paragraph (i) (vi) on reporting under Rule 11(g);
(g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to these standalone financial 
statements and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure 
2” to this report;
(h)	
In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for 
the year ended March 31, 2025, has been paid 
/ provided by the Company to its directors in 
accordance with the provisions of section 197 read 
with Schedule V to the Act.
(i)	
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 
11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, as amended in our opinion and to the 
best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position in 
its standalone financial statements – Refer Note 
28(a) to the standalone financial statements;
135 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
ii.	
The Company has made provision, as required 
under the applicable law or accounting 
standards, for material foreseeable losses, if 
any, on long-term contracts including derivative 
contracts – Refer Note 33 to the standalone 
financial statements;
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, 
required to be transferred, to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the Company;
iv.	
a) 	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
no funds have been advanced or loaned 
or invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the Company to or in 
any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the 
like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
	
b) 	
The management has represented that, to 
the best of its knowledge and belief, no 
funds have been received by the Company 
from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries; and
	
	
	
c)  	
Based on such audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused 
us to believe that the representations 
under sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any 
material misstatement.
v.	
The final dividend paid by the Company during 
the year in respect of the same declared for 
the previous year is in accordance with section 
123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
payment of dividend.
	
	
	
As stated in Note 38 to the standalone financial 
statements, the Board of Directors of the 
Company have proposed final dividend for 
the year which is subject to the approval of 
the members at the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting. The dividend declared is in accordance 
with section 123 of the Act to the extent it 
applies to declaration of dividend.
vi.	
Based on our examination which included test 
checks, the Company has used SAP S4/HANA 
accounting software for maintaining its books of 
account which has a feature of recording audit 
trail (edit log) facility in respect of the application 
and the same has operated throughout the year 
for all relevant transactions.
	
Further, during the course of our audit we did 
not come across any instance of the audit trail 
feature being tampered with in respect of the 
accounting software. Normal/ Regular users 
are not granted direct database or super user 
level access. However, changes to the back-
end database by a super user did not carry the 
feature of a concurrent real time audit trail for 
the period April 01, 2024 till October 25, 2024.
	
Additionally, the audit trail of prior year has 
been preserved by the Company as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention to 
the extent it was enabled and recorded in the 
respective year.
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
per Mustafa Saleem
Partner
Membership Number: 136969
UDIN: 25136969BMNSXZ1512   
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Date: May 15, 2025
136  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Annexure 1 referred to in paragraph 1 under the 
heading "Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements" of our report of even date
Re: Endurance Technologies Limited (“the Company”)
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and 
given by the Company and the books of account and records 
examined by us in the normal course of audit and to the best of 
our knowledge and belief, we state that:
(i)	
(a)	
(A)	
The 
Company 
has 
maintained 
proper 
records showing full particulars, including 
quantitative details and situation of Property, 
Plant and Equipment.
(i)	
(a)	
(B)	
The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of Intangible Assets.
(i)	
(b)	
All Property, Plant and Equipment have not been 
physically verified by the management during the 
year but there is a planned programme of verifying 
them once in three years which, in our opinion, is 
reasonable having regard to the size of the Company 
and the nature of its assets. No material discrepancies 
were noticed on such verification.
(i)	
(c)	
The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other 
than properties where the Company is the lessee and 
the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of 
the lessee) are held in the name of the Company.
(i)	
(d)	
The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant 
and Equipment (including Right of use assets) or 
intangible assets during the year ended March 31, 
2025. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 
3(i)(d) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(i)	
(e)	
There are no proceedings initiated or are pending 
against the Company for holding any benami 
property under the Prohibition of Benami Property 
Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made thereunder. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3 (i) 
(e) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(ii)	
(a)	
The inventory has been physically verified by the 
management during the year except for inventories 
lying with third parties. In our opinion, the frequency 
of verification by the management is reasonable and 
the coverage and procedure for such verification 
is appropriate. Discrepancies of 10% or more in 
aggregate for each class of inventory were not noticed 
in respect of such physical verification. Inventories 
lying with third parties have been confirmed by them 
as at March 31, 2025 and discrepancies of 10% or 
more in aggregate for each class of inventory were 
not noticed in respect of such confirmations.
(ii)	
(b)	
The Company has not been sanctioned working 
capital limits in excess of INR five crores in aggregate 
from banks or financial institutions during any point 
of time of the year on the basis of security of current 
assets. Accordingly, the requirement to report 
on clause 3(ii)(b) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(iii)	
(a)	
During the year, the Company has provided 
loan to a subsidiary and interest free loans to 
employees as follows:
Particulars
Loans 
(INR in million)
Aggregate amount granted during 
the year
 - 	 Subsidiary                                                
37.00
 - 	 Employees
37.12
Balance outstanding as at the 
balance sheet date in respect of 
above cases
- 	
Subsidiary
137.00
 - 	 Employees 
33.63
	
	
Other than the above the Company has not provided 
loans, advances in the nature of loans, stood 
guarantee or provided security to companies, firms, 
Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties.
(iii)	
(b)	
The terms and conditions of the grant of loans to 
subsidiary and employees are not prejudicial to the 
Company’s interest. During the year the Company has 
not made any investments, provided guarantees, or 
given security.
(iii)	
(c)	
The Company has granted loan to subsidiary and 
interest free loans during the year to employees where 
the schedule of repayment of principal has been 
stipulated and the repayment or receipts are regular.
(iii)	
(d)	
There are no amounts of loans which are overdue for 
more than ninety days. Accordingly, the requirement 
to report on clause 3 (iii) (d) of the Order in respect of 
employees is not applicable.
(iii)	
(e)	
There were no loans granted to subsidiary and 
employees which have fallen due during the year, 
that have been renewed or extended or fresh loans 
granted to settle the overdue of existing loans given 
to the same parties.
(iii)	
(f)	
The Company has not granted any loans or advances 
in the nature of loans, either repayable on demand or 
without specifying any terms or period of repayment 
to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or 
any other parties. Accordingly, the requirement to 
137 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
report on clause 3 (iii) (f) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(iv)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, there are no loans, investments, 
guarantees, and securities given in respect of which 
provisions of section 185 of the Act are applicable and 
hence not commented upon. The Company has given loan 
and made investments which are in compliance with the 
provisions of section 186 of the Act.
(v)	
The Company has neither accepted any deposits from the 
public nor accepted any amounts which are deemed to be 
deposits within the meaning of sections 73 to 76 of the Act 
and the rules made thereunder, to the extent applicable. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(v) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
(vi)	
We have broadly reviewed the books of account maintained 
by the Company pursuant to the rules made by the Central 
Government for the maintenance of cost records under 
section 148(1) of the Act, related to the manufacture of 
other machinery products and generation of electricity, and 
are of the opinion that prima facie, the specified accounts 
and records have been made and maintained. We have 
not, however, made a detailed examination of the same.
(vii)	 (a)	
The Company is regular in depositing with 
appropriate authorities undisputed statutory dues 
including goods and services tax, provident fund, 
employees’ state insurance, income-tax, customs 
duty, cess and other statutory dues applicable to it. 
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on audit procedures performed by 
us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of 
these statutory dues were outstanding, at the year 
end, for a period of more than six months from the 
date they became payable.
(vii)	 (b)	
The dues of goods and services tax, provident fund, 
employees’ state insurance, income-tax, sales-tax, 
service tax, duty of custom, duty of excise, value 
added tax, cess, and other statutory dues which 
have not been deposited on account of any dispute, 
are as follows:
Name of the statute
Nature of the 
dues
INR million**
Period to which 
amount relates
Forum where the dispute 
is pending
Central Excise Act, 1944
Excise Duty
4.37
2011-2018
Assistant / Deputy 
Commissioner
Central Excise Act, 1944
Excise Duty
15.39
2012-2018
Joint / Additional 
Commissioner
Central Excise Act, 1944
Excise Duty
20.63
2006-2018
Commissioner (Appeals)
Central Excise Act, 1944
Excise Duty
9.48
2008-2017
CESTAT
Central Goods & Service Tax 
Act,2017
GST
32.65
2019-2022
Commissioner (Appeals)
Central Goods & Service Tax 
Act,2017
GST
1.53
2017-2022
Assistant / Deputy 
Commissioner
Finance Act, 1994
Service Tax
1.37
2014-2017
Assistant / Deputy 
Commissioner
Income Tax Act,1961
Income Tax
424.21
2010-2018
ITAT
Income Tax Act,1961
Income Tax
9.13
2007-2008
High Court
Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax, 
2006
Value Added 
Tax
0.09
2014-2015
Appellate Deputy 
Commissioner
Uttarakhand Value Added Tax, 
2005
Value Added 
Tax
4.25
2014-2017
Deputy Commissioner
	
	
** The Company has deposited amounts under protest against above dues - INR 56.79 million with Income tax authorities, INR 1.26 with VAT 
authorities and INR 1.95 million with Central Excise authorities and Goods and Service Tax Authorities.
(viii)	 The Company has not surrendered or disclosed any 
transaction, previously unrecorded in the books of account, 
in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 
as income during the year. Accordingly, the requirement 
to report on clause 3(viii) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(ix)	
(a)	
The Company has not defaulted in repayment of 
loans or other borrowings or in the payment of 
interest thereon to any lender. Accordingly, the 
requirement to report on clause 3 (ix) (a) of the Order 
is not applicable to the Company.
(ix)	
(b)	
The Company has not been declared willful defaulter 
by any bank or financial institution or government or 
any government authority.
(ix)	
(c)	
The Company did not have any term loans outstanding 
during the year. Accordingly, the requirement to 
report on clause 3 (ix) (c) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(ix)	
(d)	
On an overall examination of the financial statements 
of the Company, no funds raised on short-term 
basis have been used for long-term purposes 
by the Company.
(ix)	
(e)	
On an overall examination of the financial statements 
of the Company, the Company has not taken any funds 
from any entity or person on account of or to meet the 
obligations of its subsidiaries. The Company did not 
have any associates or joint ventures during the year.
138  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
(ix)	
(f)	
The Company has not raised loans during the year 
on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries. 
The Company did not have any associates or joint 
ventures during the year. Hence, the requirement to 
report on clause (ix)(f) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(x)	
(a)	
The Company has not raised any money during the 
year by way of initial public offer or further public 
offer (including debt instruments). Accordingly, the 
requirement to report on clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
(x)	
(b)	
The Company has not made any preferential allotment 
or private placement of shares or convertible 
debentures (fully or partially or optionally convertible) 
during the year. Accordingly, the requirement to 
report on clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(xi)	
(a)	
No fraud by the Company or no material fraud 
on the Company has been noticed or reported 
during the year.
(xi)	
(b)	
During the year, no report under sub-section (12) of 
section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 has been 
filed by the cost auditor or the secretarial auditor or 
by us in Form ADT – 4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the 
Central Government.
(xi)	
(c)	
As represented to us by the management, there 
are no whistle blower complaints received by the 
Company during the year.
(xii)	 The Company is not a nidhi company as per the provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013. Therefore, the requirement to 
report on clauses 3(xii)(a), 3 (xii)(b) and 3 (xii)(c) of the Order 
are not applicable to the Company.
(xiii)	 Transactions with the related parties are in compliance 
with sections 177 and 188 of the Act where applicable 
and the details have been disclosed in the notes to 
the financial statements, as required by the applicable 
accounting standards.
(xiv)	 (a)	
The Company has an internal audit system 
commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
(xiv)	 (b)	
The internal audit reports of the Company issued 
till the date of the audit report, for the period under 
audit have been considered by us.
(xv)	 The Company has not entered into any non-cash 
transactions with its directors or persons connected with 
its directors and accordingly the requirement to report on 
clause 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)	 (a)	
The provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) are not applicable to 
the Company. Accordingly, the requirement to report 
on clause (xvi)(a) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(xvi)	 (b)	
The Company is not engaged in any Non-Banking 
Financial or Housing Finance activities. Accordingly, 
the requirement to report on clause (xvi) (b) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)	 (c)	
The Company is not a Core Investment Company 
as defined in the regulations made by Reserve Bank 
of India. Accordingly, the requirement to report 
on clause 3(xvi) (c) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(xvi)	 (d)	
There is no Core Investment Company as a part of 
the Group and accordingly, the requirement to report 
on clause 3(xvi) (d) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(xvii)	The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current 
financial year and immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii)	There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
during the year and accordingly requirement to report on 
Clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xix)	 On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed in note 42 
to the financial statements, ageing and expected dates 
of realization of financial assets and payment of financial 
liabilities, other information accompanying the financial 
statements, our knowledge of the Board of Directors 
and management plans and based on our examination 
of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has 
come to our attention, which causes us to believe that 
any material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit 
report that Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities 
existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall 
due within a period of one year from the balance sheet 
date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to 
the future viability of the Company. We further state that 
our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the 
audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any 
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of 
one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged 
by the Company as and when they fall due.
(xx)	 (a)	
In respect of other than ongoing projects, there 
are no unspent amounts which are required to be 
transferred to a fund specified in Schedule VII of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the Act), in compliance with 
second proviso to sub section 5 of section 135 of the 
Act.  This matter has been disclosed in note 37 to the 
financial statements.
(xx)	 (b)	
There are no unspent amounts in respect of ongoing 
projects, that are required to be transferred to a special 
account in compliance of provision of sub section (6) 
of section 135 of Companies Act. This matter has 
been disclosed in note 37 to the financial statements.
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
per Mustafa Saleem
Partner
Membership Number: 136969
UDIN: 25136969BMNSXZ1512   
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Date: May 15, 2025
139 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Annexure 2 to the Independent Auditor’s Report of 
even date on the Standalone Financial Statements of 
Endurance Technologies Limited 
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under 
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements of Endurance Technologies 
Limited (“the Company”) as of March 31, 2025 in conjunction 
with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the 
Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing and 
maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control 
over financial reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control stated 
in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its 
assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required 
under the Companies Act, 2013. 
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's 
internal financial controls with reference to these standalone 
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our 
audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance 
Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, as specified under 
section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls, both issued by ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with 
ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to these standalone financial statements 
were established and maintained and if such controls operated 
effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to these standalone financial statements and their 
operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements included 
obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to these standalone financial statements, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating 
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based 
on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the 
auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to these 
standalone financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to these Standalone Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements includes those 
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; 
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made 
only in accordance with authorisations of management and 
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance 
140  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that 
could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
with Reference to Standalone Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override of 
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur 
and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the 
internal financial control with reference to standalone financial 
statements may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements and such internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements were operating 
effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control 
over financial reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control stated 
in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
per Mustafa Saleem
Partner
Membership Number: 136969
UDIN: 25136969BMNSXZ1512   
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Date: May 15, 2025
141 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
 H in million 
Particulars
Note 
No.
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
ASSETS
1 Non-current assets
(a) Property, plant and equipment
3
                 19,644.57 
                 17,566.97 
(b) Capital work-in-progress
3A
                  2,069.67 
                  1,022.72 
(c)
Other intangible assets
3
                     608.52 
                     444.46 
(d) Intangible assets under development
3A
                       28.15 
                     176.92 
(e) Investments in subsidiaries
4
                  5,063.23 
                  5,063.22 
(f)
Financial assets
(i) 	 Investments
4A
                     156.48 
                     274.96 
(ii) 	 Loans
5
                     137.00 
                     100.00 
(iii) 	Other financial assets
5C
                     135.82 
                     114.60 
(g) Other non-current assets
6
                     624.74 
                     418.52 
28,468.18 
25,182.37 
2 Current assets
(a) Inventories
7
                  5,620.83 
                  4,817.13 
(b) Financial assets
(i) 	 Investments
4B
                  5,183.65 
                  4,022.22 
(ii) 	 Trade receivables
8
                 11,322.49 
                 10,684.35 
(iii) 	Cash and cash equivalents
9
                     921.48 
                     156.88 
(iv) 	Bank balances other than (iii) above
9A
                         0.45 
                         0.54 
(v) 	 Loans
5A
                       33.63 
                       19.95 
(vi) 	Other financial assets
5B
                  1,944.85 
                  1,663.90 
(c)
Other current assets
6A
                     463.43 
                     199.97 
25,490.81 
21,564.94 
3 Assets held for sale
3
                            - 
                     105.73 
Total Assets (1+2+3)
53,958.99 
46,853.04 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1 Equity
(a) Equity share capital
10
                  1,406.63 
                  1,406.63 
(b) Other equity
10A
                 42,073.46 
                 36,646.57 
43,480.09 
38,053.20 
Liabilities
2 Non-current liabilities
(a) Financial liabilities
(i) 	 Lease liabilities
11
                     194.42 
                       58.96 
(ii) 	 Other financial liabilities
12
                     133.27 
                     128.98 
(b) Provisions
13
                       35.95 
                       40.68 
(c)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
17A
                     133.54 
                     138.04 
497.18 
366.66 
3 Current liabilities
(a) Financial liabilities
(i) 	 Lease liabilities
14
                       51.87 
                       21.26 
(ii) 	 Trade payables
15
  (a) 	
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
                  1,012.74 
                     734.98 
  (b) 	
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
                  7,137.38 
                  6,027.09 
(iii) 	Other financial liabilities 
12A
                     599.76 
                     575.52 
(b) Other current liabilities
16
                     759.47 
                     756.52 
(c)
Provisions
13A
                     260.12 
                     242.05 
(d) Current tax liabilities (net)
17
                     160.38 
                       75.76 
9,981.72
8,433.18 
Total Equity and Liabilities (1+2+3)
53,958.99 
46,853.04 
Material accounting policies 
See accompanying notes forming part of the standalone financial statements
2
Balance Sheet 
as at 31st March, 2025 
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
As per our report of even date
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
	
Soumendra Basu	
Anurang Jain
	
Chairman	
Managing Director
	
(DIN : 01125409)	
(DIN : 00291662)
per Mustafa Saleem	
R S Raja Gopal Sastry	
Sunil Lalai
Partner	
Group CFO	
Company Secretary & Executive 
Membership No.: 136969	
	
Vice President–Legal
	
	
(Membership No : A8078)
Date: 15th May, 2025	
Date: 15th May, 2025
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Mumbai   
142  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025 
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296
 H in million 
   Particulars 
Note 
No
 For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
 For the year ended 
31st March, 2024 
I
Revenue from operations
18
                 88,461.48 
                 78,710.00 
II
Other income
19
                     665.82 
                     494.71 
III
Total income (I + II)
              89,127.30 
              79,204.71 
IV
Expenses:
(a)  Cost of materials consumed 
20A
                 56,863.47 
                 50,867.60 
(b)  Purchases of stock-in-trade (traded goods) 
20B
                     706.73 
                     603.81 
(c)  Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade 
20C
                   (285.69)
                     (64.36)
 and work-in-progress 
(d)  Employee benefits expense 
21
                  4,357.76 
                  3,801.24 
(e)  Finance costs 
22
                       25.62 
                       29.94 
(f)
 Depreciation and amortisation expense 
3
                  2,896.51 
                  2,625.16 
(g)  Other expenses 
23
                 15,308.69 
                 13,438.59 
 Total expenses (IV) 
              79,873.09 
              71,301.98 
V
Profit before exceptional items and tax (III-IV)
                9,254.21 
                7,902.73 
VI
Exceptional items
41
                     173.59 
                            - 
VII Profit before tax (V-VI)
                9,080.62 
                7,902.73 
VIII
Tax expense:
(a)  Current tax expense 
                  2,296.81 
                  1,947.64 
(b)  Short/(excess) provision for tax relating to prior years 
                     (21.59)
                   (117.48)
(c)  Deferred tax (credit) / charge 
                       18.81 
                     194.64 
 Total tax expense 
24
                2,294.03 
                2,024.80 
IX
Profit for the year (VII - VIII)
                6,786.59 
                5,877.93 
X
Other comprehensive income / (loss)
(a) Item that will not be reclassified to profit and loss in subsequent years
- 	
Remeasurements of defined benefit plan
                     (43.77)
                     (38.77)
	
Income-tax effect
                       11.02 
                         9.76 
- 	
Changes in fair valuation of FVOCI equity investments
                   (143.62)
                   (156.24)
	
Income-tax effect
                       12.30 
                       35.75 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss)
                 (164.07)
                 (149.50)
XI
Total comprehensive income  (IX+X)
                6,622.52 
                5,728.43 
XII
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share (H) 
(Face value per equity share H 10)
                       48.25 
                       41.79 
Material accounting policies
See accompanying notes forming part of the standalone financial 
statements	
2
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
As per our report of even date
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
	
Soumendra Basu	
Anurang Jain
	
Chairman	
Managing Director
	
(DIN : 01125409)	
(DIN : 00291662)
per Mustafa Saleem	
R S Raja Gopal Sastry	
Sunil Lalai
Partner	
Group CFO	
Company Secretary & Executive 
Membership No.: 136969	
	
Vice President–Legal
	
	
(Membership No :  A8078)
Date: 15th May, 2025	
Date: 15th May, 2025
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Mumbai   
143 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025 
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296
A	
 Equity share capital
B 	 Changes in other equity
H in Million 
Particulars
 As at 
31st March, 2025 
 As at 
31st March, 2024 
Balance at the beginning of the year 
 1,406.63 
 1,406.63 
Changes in Equity Share Capital during the year*
 - 
 - 
Balance at the end of the year 
 1,406.63 
 1,406.63 
* There are no changes in share capital due to prior period errors.
H in Million
Particulars
Reserves and surplus
Other reserves
Total equity
Securities 
premium
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Equity instruments 
through other 
comprehensive income
Balance as at 1st April, 2023
 160.40 
 1,208.89 
 30,487.04 
 46.45 
 31,902.78 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 5,877.93 
 - 
 5,877.93 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for 
the year, net of tax
 - 
 - 
 (29.01)
 (120.49)
 (149.50)
Payment of dividend  
(Refer note 38(ii))
 - 
 - 
 (984.64)
 - 
 (984.64)
Subtotal
 - 
 - 
 4,864.28 
 (120.49)
 4,743.79 
Balance as at 31st March, 2024
 160.40 
 1,208.89 
 35,351.32 
 (74.04)
 36,646.57 
H in Million
Particulars
Reserves and surplus
Other reserves
Total equity
Securities 
premium
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Equity instruments 
through other 
comprehensive income
Balance as at 1st April, 2024
 160.40 
 1,208.89 
 35,351.32 
 (74.04)
 36,646.57 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 6,786.59 
 - 
 6,786.59 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for 
the year, net of tax
 - 
 - 
 (32.75)
 (131.32)
 (164.07)
Payment of dividend  
(Refer note 38(ii))
 - 
 - 
 (1,195.63)
 - 
 (1,195.63)
Subtotal
 - 
 - 
 5,558.21 
 (131.32)
 5,426.89 
Balance as at 31st March, 2025
 160.40 
 1,208.89 
 40,909.53 
 (205.36)
 42,073.46 
There are no prior period errors during the current year and previous year.
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
As per our report of even date
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
	
Soumendra Basu	
Anurang Jain
	
Chairman	
Managing Director
	
(DIN : 01125409)	
(DIN : 00291662)
per Mustafa Saleem	
R S Raja Gopal Sastry	
Sunil Lalai
Partner	
Group CFO	
Company Secretary & Executive 
Membership No.: 136969	
	
Vice President–Legal
	
	
(Membership No :  A8078)
Date: 15th May, 2025	
Date: 15th May, 2025
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Mumbai   
144  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Cash Flow Statement 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025 
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296
H in Million 
Sr
No.
Particulars	
 For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024 
A
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before tax
 9,080.62 
 7,902.73 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 2,896.51 
 2,625.16 
Finance costs
 19.75 
 23.78 
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
 (65.58)
 (68.45)
Excess provision/creditors written back
 (18.40)
 (11.13)
Dividend income
 (2.56)
 (5.61)
Unrealised exchange gain (net) 
 (14.96)
 (8.00)
Gain on financial instruments carried at fair value through Profit or Loss (net)
 (397.95)
 (296.33)
Exceptional items
 173.59 
 - 
Loss on lease modification (net)
 0.05 
 - 
Interest income
 (22.04)
 (13.37)
Operating profit before working capital changes
 11,649.03 
 10,148.78 
Movement in working capital
Adjustments for (increase)/decrease in operating assets
	
Inventories
 (803.69)
 (527.90)
	
Trade receivables
 (710.76)
 (2,195.88)
	
Other financial assets
 (319.78)
 (597.57)
	
Other assets
 (259.00)
 112.34 
Adjustments for increase/(decrease) in operating liabilities
	
Trade payables	
 1,308.11 
 1,110.35 
	
Provisions
 (29.78)
 (140.79)
	
Other current liabilities
 2.96 
 72.94 
	
Other financial liabilities
 4.30 
 10.98 
Cash generated from operating activities
 10,841.39 
 7,993.25 
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds)
 (2,106.55)
 (1,944.84)
Net cash flows from operating activities
 8,734.84 
 6,048.41 
B
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment; and intangible assets (including 
capital work in progress, intangible assets under development and capital 
advances)
 (6,110.85)
 (3,832.80)
Proceeds on sale of property, plant and equipment (including assets held for 
sale)
 225.98 
 118.76 
Investment in subsidiary
 (0.01)
 (69.43)
Investment in equity shares
 (64.38)
 (176.78)
Loan to subsidiary
 (37.00)
 (100.00)
(Investments in) / redemption of mutual funds (net)
 (763.53)
 (1,047.23)
Increase in other bank balances
 0.09 
 (0.06)
Dividend received
 2.56 
 5.61 
Interest received
 18.99 
 13.36 
Net cash flows used in investing activities	
	
 (6,728.15)
 (5,088.57)
145 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
H in Million 
Sr
No.
Particulars	
 For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024 
C
Cash flow from financing activities
Repayments of short term borrowings (net)
 - 
 (200.00)
Dividend paid
 (1,195.61)
 (984.58)
Finance costs paid
 (12.68)
 (18.47)
Payment of interest portion of lease liability
 (7.74)
 (7.31)
Payment of principal portion of lease liability
 (26.06)
 (19.46)
Net cash flows used in financing activities
 (1,242.09)
 (1,229.82)
Net  increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 764.60 
 (269.98)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 156.88 
 426.86 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 921.48 
 156.88 
Net  increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 764.60
 (269.98)
See accompanying notes forming part of the standalone financial statements.
Notes:
1 	
Figures in brackets represent outflows.
2 	
Previous year figures have been regrouped, wherever necessary, to conform to current year's presentation.
3 	
Refer note 40 for change in financial liabilities arising from financing activities.
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
As per our report of even date
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
	
Soumendra Basu	
Anurang Jain
	
Chairman	
Managing Director
	
(DIN : 01125409)	
(DIN : 00291662)
per Mustafa Saleem	
R S Raja Gopal Sastry	
Sunil Lalai
Partner	
Group CFO	
Company Secretary & Executive 
Membership No.: 136969	
	
Vice President–Legal
	
	
(Membership No :  A8078)
Date: 15th May, 2025	
Date: 15th May, 2025
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Mumbai   
Cash Flow Statement 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025 
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296
146  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
1	
Corporate Information
	
Endurance Technologies Limited ("Endurance" or "the 
Company") (CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296) is in the 
business of manufacturing and selling of aluminium die 
casting (including alloy wheel), suspension, transmission 
and braking products with operations spread across India.
	
The Company sells its products in India as well as exports 
to foreign countries.
	
The Company is a public limited company incorporated 
and domiciled in India. The address of its registered office 
is E-92, MIDC Industrial area, Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar 
(Aurangabad), Maharashtra - 431136, India.
	
The standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st 
March, 2025 were approved for issue in accordance with 
the resolution of the Board of Directors on 15th May, 2025.
2	
Material Accounting Policies
2.01	Statement of Compliance
	
The standalone financial statements of the Company have 
been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (referred to as “Ind AS”) notified under the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 
(as amended from time to time) and the presentation 
requirements of Division II of Schedule III to the Companies 
Act, 2013 (Ind AS Compliant Schedule III), as applicable.
2.02	Basis of preparation and presentation
	
These standalone financial statements have been prepared 
on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial 
instruments which have been measured at fair value at 
the end of each reporting period, as explained under 
accounting policy 2.16. The standalone financial statements 
are presented in INR and all values are rounded off to the 
nearest million (INR 000,000), except as stated otherwise.
	
The Company has prepared the standalone financial 
statements on the basis that it will continue to operate as 
a going concern.
2.03	Use of estimates and assumptions
	
The preparation of these standalone financial statements 
requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, 
expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. 
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could 
result in outcomes that require a material adjustment 
to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in 
future periods.
	
a. 	
Estimates
	
	
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed 
on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognized in the period in which the 
estimates are revised and future periods are affected.
	
	
Key sources of estimation of uncertainty at the date 
of the standalone financial statements, which have 
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within 
the next financial year are in respect of useful lives of 
property, plant and equipment, defined benefit plan 
and impairment of non current investments.
	
	
(i) 	
Useful lives of Property, plant and equipment
	
	
	
The Company reviews the useful life of property, 
plant and equipment at the end of each reporting 
period. This reassessment may result in change 
in depreciation expense in future periods.
	
	
(ii) 	 Defined benefit plan
	
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and 
other post-employment benefits and the present 
value of the gratuity obligation are determined 
using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation 
involves making various assumptions that may 
differ from actual developments in the future. 
These include the determination of the discount 
rate; future salary increases and mortality rates. 
Due to the complexities involved in the valuation 
and its long-term nature, a defined benefit 
obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these 
assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at 
each reporting date.
	
The parameter most subject to change is the 
discount rate. In determining the appropriate 
discount rate for plans operated in India, the 
management considers the interest rates of 
government bonds where remaining maturity 
of such bond correspond to expected term of 
defined benefit obligation.
	
The mortality rate is based on publicly available 
mortality tables for India. Those mortality tables 
tend to change only at interval in response to 
demographic changes. Future salary increases 
and gratuity increases are based on expected 
future inflation rates for the respective countries. 
Further details about gratuity obligations are 
given in Note 29.
	
	
(iii) 	 Impairment of non-current investments (other 
than financial assets)
	
Impairment exists when the carrying value of 
an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its 
recoverable amount, which is the higher of its 
fair value less costs of disposal and its value 
in use. The fair value less costs of disposal 
calculation is based on available data from 
147 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
binding sales transactions, conducted at arm’s 
length, for similar assets or observable market 
prices less incremental costs for disposing of the 
asset. The value in use calculation is based on a 
DCF model. The cash flows are derived from the 
budget approved by the senior management 
and do not include restructuring activities 
that the Company is not yet committed to or 
significant future investments that will enhance 
the asset’s performance of the CGU being 
tested. The recoverable amount is sensitive to 
the discount rate used for the DCF model as 
well as the expected future cash-inflows and the 
growth rate used for extrapolation purposes.
2.04	Revenue from contract with customer
	
Revenue is recognized when control of goods and services 
have been transferred to the customer; at an amount that 
reflects the consideration which the Company expects 
to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. 
The timing of when the Company transfers the goods 
or provide services may differ from the timing of the 
customer’s payment. Amounts disclosed as revenue are net 
of goods and service tax (GST).
	
The Company has generally concluded that it is the 
principal in its revenue arrangements, because it typically 
controls the goods or services before transferring them 
to the customer.
	
Sale of Goods
	
The Company based on the underlying agreements has 
determined that the transfer of control to the customer and 
therefore revenue recognition, in regard to the domestic 
sales and export sales, generally corresponds to the date 
when the goods are dispatched from their point of sale, 
or when the goods are made available to the customer, 
or when the goods are released to the carrier responsible 
for transporting them to the customer. Export sales are 
recorded at the relevant exchange rates prevailing on the 
transaction date.
	
Generally, the normal credit period is 30 to 60 days upon 
delivery for customers in India and 30 to 120 days for 
overseas customers.
	
Variable consideration
	
If the consideration in a contract includes a variable 
amount (like volume rebates/incentives, discounts etc.), 
the Company estimates the amount of consideration 
to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring 
the goods to the customer. The variable consideration 
is estimated at contract inception and constrained until 
it is highly probable that a significant revenue reversal 
in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not 
occur when the associated uncertainty with the variable 
consideration is subsequently resolved. The estimate of 
variable consideration for expected future volume rebates/
incentives, cash discounts etc. are made on the most likely 
amount method. Revenue is disclosed net of such amounts.
	
Warranty obligations
	
The Company provides warranties for general repairs of 
defects as per terms of the contract with customers. These 
warranties are considered as assurance type warranties and 
are accounted for under Ind AS 37- Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
	
Revenue from job work
	
The Company provides job work services to its 
customers. Such services are sold separately and are not 
bundled together with the sale of Company’s goods. 
Revenue from job work is accounted as and when such 
services are rendered.
	
Contract balances
	
Trade receivables
	
A receivable represents the Company’s right to an amount 
of consideration that is unconditional (i.e., only the passage 
of time is required before payment of the consideration 
is due). Refer to accounting policy no. 2.16 Financial 
instruments – Financial assets at amortized cost.
	
Contract liabilities / Advance from customers
	
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods 
to a customer for which the Company has received 
consideration (or an amount of consideration is due) from 
the customer. If a customer pays consideration before the 
Company transfers goods or services to the customer, 
a contract liability is recognized when the payment is 
received. Contract liabilities are recognized as revenue 
when the Company performs under the contract.
2.05 Leases
	
The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) 
a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at 
the inception of the lease. The arrangement is, or contains, 
a lease if fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on 
the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement 
conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right 
is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
	
Company as a lessee
	
The 
Company 
applies 
a 
single 
recognition 
and 
measurement approach for all leases above 12 months, 
except for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. 
The Company recognizes lease liabilities to make lease 
payments and right-of-use assets representing the right to 
use the underlying assets.
	
Right-of-use assets
	
The Company recognizes right-of-use assets at the 
commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the 
148  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
underlying asset is available for use). Right-of-use assets are 
measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement 
of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes 
the amount of lease liabilities recognized, initial direct 
costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the 
commencement date less any lease incentives received. 
Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful 
lives of the assets.
	
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Company 
at the end of the lease term or the cost reflects the exercise 
of a purchase option, depreciation is calculated using the 
estimated useful life of the asset. The right-of-use assets 
are also subject to impairment. Refer to note 2.14.2 
Impairment of non-financial assets.
	
Lease Liabilities
	
At the commencement date of the lease, the Company 
recognizes lease liabilities measured at the present value 
of lease payments to be made over the lease term. The 
lease payments include fixed payments less any lease 
incentives receivable.
	
In calculating the present value of lease payments, the 
Company uses its incremental borrowing rate at the 
lease commencement date because the interest rate 
implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the 
commencement date, the amount of lease liabilities is 
increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced 
for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying 
amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a 
modification, a change in the lease term, a change in the 
lease payments or a change in the assessment of an option 
to purchase the underlying asset.
2.06 Foreign Currency and derivatives
	
The functional currency of the Company is the Indian Rupee.
	
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at 
exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. 
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are 
translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the balance 
sheet date; and exchange gains and losses arising on 
settlement or translation are recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss.
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-
monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency 
are translated using the exchange rates at the date when 
the fair value is determined. The gain or loss arising on 
translation of non- monetary items measured at fair value is 
treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the 
change in fair value of the item (i.e., translation differences 
on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognized in OCI 
or profit or loss are also recognized in OCI or profit or 
loss, respectively).
	
In determining the spot exchange rate to use on initial 
recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or part 
of it) on the derecognition of a non-monetary asset or non-
monetary liability relating to advance consideration, the 
date of the transaction is the date on which the Company 
initially recognizes the non-monetary asset or non-
monetary liability arising from the advance consideration. 
If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, 
the Company determines the transaction date for each 
payment or receipt of advance consideration.
	
The Company uses derivative financial instruments, such 
as foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its foreign 
currency risks. Such derivative financial instruments are 
initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a 
derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-
measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as financial 
assets when the fair value is positive and as financial 
liabilities when the fair value is negative.
	
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of 
derivatives are taken directly to profit or loss. The foreign 
exchange forward contracts are not designated as cash flow 
hedges and are entered into for periods consistent with 
foreign currency exposure of the underlying transactions.
2.07 Borrowing Costs
	
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of qualifying assets, that 
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready 
for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the 
cost of assets, until such time as the assets are substantially 
ready for their intended use or sale.
	
Interest income earned on the temporary investment 
of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on 
qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs 
eligible for capitalization.
	
All other borrowing costs are recognized in profit or loss 
in the period in which they are incurred. Borrowing costs 
consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in 
connection with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost 
also includes exchange differences to the extent regarded 
as an adjustment to the borrowing costs.
2.08 Government grants and export incentives
	
1. 	
Government grants
	
	
Government grants are recognized at their fair value 
where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant 
will be received and all attached conditions will be 
complied with. Government grants relating to income 
are deferred and recognized in the profit or loss 
149 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
over the periods necessary to match them with the 
costs that they are intended to compensate and are 
presented within other operating revenues.
	
2. 	
Export benefits
	
	
Export benefits are accrued in the year of exports 
based on eligibility and when there is no uncertainty 
in receiving the same. Export benefits in the nature 
of Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Product 
(RODTEP) scheme and Duty Drawback are recognized 
on accrual basis in the year of export.
2.09	Employee benefits
	
1.	
Defined contribution plan:
	
	
Provident fund: The eligible employees of the 
Company are entitled to receive benefits under 
the provident fund, a defined contribution plan, 
in which both employees and the Company make 
monthly contributions at a specified percentage of 
the covered employee’s salary. The contributions 
as specified under the law are paid to the Central 
Government Provident Fund and the Family Pension 
Fund and the same is charged to the Statement of 
Profit and Loss in the year when the contributions to 
the respective funds are due and when services are 
rendered by the employees.
	
2.	
Defined benefit plan:
	
	
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of 
providing benefits is determined using the projected 
unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being 
carried out at the end of each annual reporting 
period. Remeasurement, comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses, the effect of the changes to the 
asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on plan 
assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in 
the balance sheet with a charge or credit recognized 
in other comprehensive income in the period in which 
they occur. Remeasurement recognized in other 
comprehensive income is reflected immediately in 
retained earnings and will not be reclassified to profit 
or loss in subsequent periods. Past service cost is 
recognized in profit or loss in the period of a plan 
amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying 
the discount rate at the beginning of the period to 
the net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined 
benefit costs are categorized as follows:
 
 
service cost (including current service cost, 
past service cost, as well as gains and losses on 
curtailments and settlements);
 
 
net interest expense or income; and
 
 
remeasurement.
	
	
Gratuity: The Company has an obligation towards 
gratuity, a defined benefit retirement plan covering 
eligible employees. The plan provides for a lump 
sum payment to vested employees at retirement, 
death while in employment or on termination of 
employment of an amount equivalent to 15/26 days 
salary payable for each completed year of service. 
Vesting occurs upon completion of five years of 
service. For the employees of specified grades, 
who have completed 10 years of service, an amount 
equal to 30 days salary is payable for each completed 
year of service. The Company accounts for the 
liability for gratuity benefits payable in future based 
on an independent actuarial valuation using the 
projected unit credit method at the reporting date. 
The Company has taken a Company Gratuity cum 
Life Assurance Scheme with LIC of India for future 
payment of gratuity to the eligible employees.
	
3. 	
Compensated absences:
	
	
The Company provides for the encashment of 
compensated absences with pay subject to certain 
rules. The employees are entitled to accumulate 
compensated absences subject to certain limits, for 
future encashment. Such benefits are provided based 
on the number of days of unutilized compensated 
absence on the basis of an independent actuarial 
valuation using the projected unit credit method 
at the reporting date. Actuarial gains/losses are 
immediately taken to profit or loss and are not 
deferred. The Company has taken a policy with LIC 
of India for future payment of compensated absences 
encashment to its employees.
2.10	Taxes
	
Income tax expense comprises of current tax expense and 
the net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during 
the year. Current and deferred taxes are recognized in 
profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are 
recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in 
equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also 
recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in 
equity, respectively. Income tax expense represents the 
sum of current tax and deferred tax.
	
Current income tax
	
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured 
at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to 
tax authorities.
	
The Company’s current tax is measured using tax rates that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of 
the reporting period.
	
Current income tax relating to items recognized outside 
profit or loss is recognized outside profit or loss (either in 
other comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax items 
are recognized in correlation to the underlying transaction 
either in OCI or directly in equity. Management periodically 
150  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to 
situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to 
interpretation and considers whether it is probable that the 
taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment.
	
The Company shall reflect the effect of uncertainty for each 
uncertain tax treatment by using either most likely method 
or expected value method depending on which method 
predicts better resolution of the treatment.
	
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are 
presented in the balance sheet after off-setting advance 
tax paid and income tax provision arising in the same tax 
jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying units intend 
to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.
	
Deferred taxes
	
Deferred tax is recognized using liability method. Deferred 
tax assets and liabilities are recognized for deductible and 
taxable temporary differences arising between the tax 
base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount.
	
Deferred tax asset are recognized to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profit will be available against which 
the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward 
of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilized. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed 
at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that 
it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will 
be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset 
to be utilized.
	
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each 
reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has 
become probable that future taxable profits will allow the 
deferred tax assets to be recovered .
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using 
substantively enacted tax rates expected to apply to 
taxable income in the years in which the temporary 
differences are expected to be received or settled.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority 
and the relevant entity intends and has ability to settle its 
current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
2.11	Property, plant and equipment
	
Capital work in progress is stated at cost, net of accumulated 
impairment loss, if any. Property, plant and equipment 
are stated at cost of acquisition or construction where 
cost includes amount added/deducted on revaluation 
less accumulated depreciation / amortization, if any. All 
costs directly relating to the acquisition and installation of 
assets are capitalized and include borrowing costs relating 
to funds attributable to construction or acquisition of 
qualifying assets, up to the date the asset / plant is ready 
for intended use. The cost of replacing a part of an item of 
property, plant and equipment is recognized in the carrying 
amount of the item of property, plant and equipment, if it 
is probable that the future economic benefits embodies 
within the part will flow to the Company and its cost can be 
measured reliably with the carrying amount of the replaced 
part getting derecognized. The cost for day-to-day 
servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognized 
in Statement of Profit and Loss as and when incurred.
	
Depreciation on Property, plant and equipment has been 
provided on a straight-line basis as per the useful life 
prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 
except in respect of the following categories of assets, 
in whose case the life of the assets has been assessed 
as under based on technical advice, taking into account 
the nature of the asset, the estimated usage of the 
asset, the operating conditions of the asset, past history 
of replacement, anticipated technological changes, 
manufacturers warranties and maintenance support, etc.:
	
i) 	
Plant & equipment - 7.5 years/10 years
	
ii) 	
Vehicles – 5 years/7 years
	
iii) 	
Dies and moulds are depreciated over their 
estimated economic life determined on the basis of 
their usage or on straight line basis in the manner 
specified in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013, 
whichever is higher.
	
iv) 	
Renewable energy equipments - 22 Years
	
	
The residual values, useful life and methods of 
depreciation are reviewed at each financial year end 
and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. An item 
of property, plant and equipment and any significant 
part initially recognized is derecognized upon 
disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss 
arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as 
the difference between the net disposal proceeds 
and the carrying amount of the asset) is included 
in the statement of profit and loss when the asset 
is derecognized.
2.12	Intangible Assets
	
Intangible assets acquired separately:
	
Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired 
separately are carried at cost less accumulated amortization, 
if any. Amortization is recognized on a straight-line basis 
over their estimated useful lives.
	
The estimated useful life and amortization method are 
reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the 
effect of any changes in estimate being accounted for on a 
prospective basis.
151 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
	
i)	
Technical knowhow is amortized over a period 
ranging from six to ten years;
	
ii)	
Software is amortized over a period of three years.
	
An intangible asset is derecognised upon disposal (i.e., 
at the date the recipient obtains control) or when no 
future economic benefits are expected from its use or 
disposal. Any gain or loss arising upon derecognition of 
the asset (calculated as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is 
included in the statement of profit and loss. when the asset 
is derecognised.
2.13	Non-current assets held for sale
	
The Company classifies non-current assets as held for sale if 
their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through 
a sale rather than through continuing use. Management 
must be committed to the sale expected within one year 
from the date of classification.
	
Non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower 
of their carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell.
	
The criteria for held for sale classification is regarded met 
only when the assets are available for immediate sale in 
its present condition, subject only to terms that are usual 
and customary for sales of such assets, its sale is highly 
probable; and it will genuinely be sold, not abandoned. 
Actions required to complete the sale should indicate that 
it is unlikely that significant changes to the sale will be made 
or that the decision to sell will be withdrawn. The Company 
treats sale of the asset to be highly probable when:
 
 
The appropriate level of management is committed 
to a plan to sell the asset,
 
 
An active programme to locate a buyer and complete 
the plan has been initiated,
 
 
The asset is being actively marketed for sale at a price 
that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value,
 
 
The sale is expected to qualify for recognition as a 
completed sale within one year from the date of 
classification, and
 
 
Actions required to complete the plan indicate that it 
is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be 
made or that the plan will be withdrawn.
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once 
classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortized. 
All other notes to the standalone financial statements 
mainly include amounts for continuing operations, unless 
otherwise mentioned.
2.14	Impairment of financial and non financial assets
	
1. 	
Financial assets
	
The impairment methodology applied depends on 
whether there has been a significant increase in credit 
risk and if so, assess the need to provide for the same 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment 
loss, the Company combines financial instruments 
based on shared credit risk characteristics with the 
objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed 
to enable significant increases in credit risk to be 
identified on a timely basis.
	
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for 
recognition of impairment loss allowance on 
trade receivables.
	
The application of simplified approach does not 
require the Company to track changes in credit 
risk. Rather, it recognizes impairment loss allowance 
based on lifetime expected credit losses (ECL) at 
each reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
	
	
For recognition of impairment loss on other financial 
assets and risk exposure, the Company determines 
whether there has been a significant increase in the 
credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has 
not increased significantly, 12-month ECL is used to 
provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk 
has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If, in 
a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument 
improves such that there is no longer a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then 
the entity reverts to recognizing impairment loss 
allowance based on 12-month ECL.
	
	
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting 
from all possible default events over the expected 
life of a financial instrument. The 12-month ECL is a 
portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default 
events that are possible within 12 months after the 
reporting date.
	
	
ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows 
that are due to the Company in accordance with the 
contract and all the cash flows that the entity expects 
to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at the 
original effective interest rate (EIR). When estimating 
the cash flows, an entity is required to consider all 
contractual terms of the financial instrument over the 
expected life of the financial instrument.
152  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
	
	
The Company estimates the following provision 
matrix at the reporting date:
Not 
due
Within 
365
days*
More than
365 days*
Default Rate
0%
0%
100%
	
	
* Provision is made for receivables where recovery is considered 
doubtful irrespective of due date. Where an amount is outstanding 
for more than 365 days the Company usually provides for the 
same unless there is clear visibility of recovery.
	
ECL 
impairment 
loss 
allowance 
(or 
reversal) 
recognized during the period is recognized as 
income/ expense in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other 
expenses’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The 
balance sheet presentation for various financial 
instruments is described below:
	
Financial assets measured at amortized cost, revenue 
receivables and lease receivables: ECL is presented as 
an allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the measurement 
of those assets in the balance sheet. The allowance 
reduces the net carrying amount. Until the asset 
meets write-off criteria, the Company does not reduce 
impairment allowance from the gross carrying amount.
	
2. 	
Non-financial assets
	
	
The Company assesses, at each reporting date, 
whether there is any indication that the carrying 
amount of non financial asset may not be 
recoverable. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, 
the recoverable amount, (i.e. higher of the fair value 
less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined 
on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are largely independent of 
those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable 
amount is determined for the cash generating unit 
(CGU) to which the asset belongs.
	
	
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is 
estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the 
carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced 
to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is 
recognized in the statement of profit or loss. The 
Company bases its impairment calculation on 
budgets and forecast calculations.
	
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using 
a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset. In determining fair value less costs 
of disposal, an appropriate valuation model is used.
2.15 Inventories
	
Inventories of raw materials and components, work-in-
progress, stock-in-trade, stores & spares, packing materials 
and loose tools & instruments are valued at the lower of 
cost and net realizable value. Cost is ascertained on a 
weighted average basis. Costs incurred in bringing each 
product to its present location and condition are accounted 
for as follows:
	
a)	
Raw materials, stores & spares and tools & 
instruments: cost includes cost of purchase and other 
costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition.
	
b)	
Finished goods and work in progress: cost includes 
cost of direct materials and labour and a proportion 
of manufacturing overheads based on the normal 
operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
	
c)	
Traded goods: cost includes cost of purchase and 
other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to 
their present location and condition.
	
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in 
the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs 
of completion and the estimated costs necessary 
to make the sale.
2.16 Financial instruments
	
Financial assets
	
a)	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as 
subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value 
through other comprehensive income (OCI), and fair 
value through profit or loss.
	
	
The classification of financial assets at initial 
recognition 
depends 
on 
the 
financial 
asset’s 
contractual 
cash 
flow 
characteristics 
and 
the 
Company’s business model for managing them. With 
the exception of trade receivables that do not contain 
a significant financing component or for which the 
Company has applied the practical expedient, the 
Company initially measures a financial asset at its 
fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at 
fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs. 
Trade receivables that do not contain a significant 
financing component or for which the Company has 
applied the practical expedient are measured at the 
transaction price determined under Ind AS 115. Refer 
to the accounting policies in section (2.04) Revenue 
from contracts with customers.
	
	
In order for a financial asset to be classified and 
measured at amortised cost or fair value through 
OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are 
‘solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI)’ on 
153 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
the principal amount outstanding. This assessment 
is referred to as the SPPI test and is performed at 
an instrument level. Financial assets with cash flows 
that are not SPPI are classified and measured at 
fair value through profit or loss, irrespective of the 
business model.
	
	
The Company’s business model for managing 
financial assets refers to how it manages its financial 
assets in order to generate cash flows. The business 
model determines whether cash flows will result 
from collecting contractual cash flows, selling the 
financial assets, or both. Financial assets classified 
and measured at amortised cost are held within a 
business model with the objective to hold financial 
assets in order to collect contractual cash flows while 
financial assets classified and measured at fair value 
through OCI are held within a business model with 
the objective of both holding to collect contractual 
cash flows and selling.
	
	
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require 
delivery of assets within a time frame established by 
regulation or convention in the marketplace (regular 
way trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., 
the date that the Company commits to purchase or 
sell the asset.
	
b) 	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial 
assets are classified in four categories:
 
 
Financial 
assets 
at 
amortised 
cost 
(debt instruments)
 
 
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVTOCI) with recycling 
of cumulative gains and losses (debt instruments)
 
 
Financial assets designated at fair value through 
OCI with no recycling of cumulative gains and 
losses upon derecognition (equity instruments)
 
 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
	
	
(i)  	 Financial assets at amortised cost (debt 
instruments)
	
	
	
A ‘financial asset’ is measured at the amortised 
cost if both the following conditions are met:
	
	
	
a)	
The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for 
collecting contractual cash flows, and
	
	
	
b)	
Contractual terms of the asset give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (SPPI) 
on the principal amount outstanding.
	
	
	
This category is the most relevant to the Company. 
After initial measurement, such financial assets 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into 
account any discount or premium on acquisition 
and fees or costs that are an integral part of the 
EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance 
income in the profit or loss. The losses arising 
from impairment are recognised in the profit or 
loss. The Company’s financial assets at amortised 
cost includes trade receivables, and loan to an 
associate and loan to a director included under 
other non-current financial assets. For more 
information on receivables, refer to Note 8. 
	
(ii)	
Financial assets at fair value through OCI (FVTOCI) 
(debt instruments)
	
	
A ‘financial asset’ is classified as at the FVTOCI if both 
of the following criteria are met:
	
	
a)	
The objective of the business model is achieved 
both by collecting contractual cash flows and 
selling the financial assets, and
	
	
b)	
The asset’s contractual cash flows represent SPPI.
	
	
	
Debt instruments included within the FVTOCI 
category are measured initially as well as at each 
reporting date at fair value. For debt instruments, 
at fair value through OCI, interest income, 
foreign exchange revaluation and impairment 
losses or reversals are recognised in the profit 
or loss and computed in the same manner as for 
financial assets measured at amortised cost. The 
remaining fair value changes are recognised in 
OCI. Upon derecognition, the cumulative fair 
value changes recognised in OCI is reclassified 
from the equity to profit or loss.
	
(iii) 	 Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI 
(equity instruments)
	
	
Upon initial recognition, the Company can elect 
to classify irrevocably its equity investments as 
equity instruments designated at fair value through 
OCI when they meet the definition of equity under 
Ind AS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 
and are not held for trading. The classification is 
determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis. 
Equity instruments which are held for trading and 
contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer 
in a business combination to which Ind AS103 applies 
are classified as at FVTPL.
	
	
Gains and losses on these financial assets are never 
recycled to profit or loss. Dividends are recognised as 
other income in the statement of profit and loss when 
154  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
the right of payment has been established, except 
when the Company benefits from such proceeds as 
a recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, 
in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI. Equity 
instruments designated at fair value through OCI are 
not subject to impairment assessment.
	
(iv) 	 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with net 
changes in fair value recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss.
	
	
This category includes derivative instruments and 
equity investments which the Company had not 
irrevocably elected to classify at fair value through 
OCI. Dividends on equity investments are recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss when the right of 
payment has been established.
	
	
Investment in subsidiaries
	
	
Investment in subsidiaries are measured at cost as per 
Ind AS 27 - Separate standalone financial statements.
	
	
Financial liabilities
	
	
Financial liabilities are classified at initial recognition 
as financial liabilities at fair value through profit 
or loss, loans and borrowings, payables or as 
derivatives designated as hedging instruments in 
an effective hedge, as appropriate. All financial 
liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and in 
case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of 
directly attributable transaction costs. The Company’s 
financial liabilities include trade and other payables, 
loans and borrowings, and derivative financial 
instruments. Trade, other payables and derivative 
financial instruments are measured subsequently 
at FVTPL. Loans and borrowings are subsequently 
measured at amortized costs using EIR method. 
Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or 
costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
	
	
Equity instruments
	
	
All equity instruments in scope of Ind AS 109, other 
than investments in subsidiaries, are measured at fair 
value. Equity instruments which are held for trading are 
classified as at fair value through profit and loss. For all 
other equity instruments the Company may make an 
irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive 
income, subsequent changes in the fair value. The 
Company makes such election on an instrument by 
instrument basis. The classification is done on initial 
recognition and is irrevocable. If the Company decides 
to classify an equity instruments as at FVOCI then all fair 
value changes on the instrument excluding dividends 
are recognized in OCI. There is no recycling from OCI 
to profit or loss even on sale of instrument. However, 
the Company may transfer the cumulative gain/loss 
within equity. Equity instruments included within the 
FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all 
changes recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Derecognition
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a 
financial asset or part of a group of similar financial 
assets) is primarily derecognized (i.e. removed from 
the Company’s balance sheet) when:
	
	
a.	
The rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
have expired, or
	
	
b.	
The Company has transferred its rights to 
receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed 
an obligation to pay the received cash flows in 
full without material delay to a third party under 
a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) 
the Company has transferred substantially all 
the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the 
Company has neither transferred nor retained 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
	
	
When the Company has transferred its rights to 
receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into 
a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if and to 
what extent it has retained the risks and rewards 
of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor 
retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the 
Company continues to recognize the transferred 
asset to the extent of the Company’s continuing 
involvement. In that case, the Company also 
recognizes an associated liability. The transferred 
asset and the associated liability are measured on a 
basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the 
Company has retained.
	
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a 
guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at 
the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset 
and the maximum amount of consideration that the 
Company could be required to repay.
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation 
under the liability is discharged or cancelled or 
expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced 
by another from the same lender on substantially 
different terms, or the terms of an existing liability 
are substantially modified, such an exchange or 
modification is treated as the derecognition of the 
original liability and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
155 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and 
the net amount is reported in the Balance Sheet if 
there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset 
the recognized amounts and there is an intention to 
settle on a net basis, to realize the assets and settle 
the liabilities simultaneously.
2.17	Earnings Per Share (EPS)
	
The Company reports basic and diluted earnings per share 
in accordance with Ind AS 33 - Earnings per Share. Basic 
earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit 
or loss after tax for the period by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the period. 
Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing the 
net profit or loss for the period by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the period 
as adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity 
shares except where the results are anti-dilutive.
2.18	Research and development expenses
	
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development 
expenditures on an individual project are recognised as an 
intangible asset when the Company can demonstrate:
 
 
The technical feasibility of completing the intangible 
asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale
 
 
Its intention to complete and its ability and intention 
to use or sell the asset
 
 
How the asset will generate future economic benefits
 
 
The availability of resources to complete the asset
 
 
The ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
during development
	
Following 
initial 
recognition 
of 
the 
development 
expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment 
losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development 
is complete, and the asset is available for use. It is amortised 
over the period of expected future benefit. Amortisation 
expense is recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value of 
another asset. During the period of development, the asset 
is tested for impairment annually.
2.19	Current versus Non-Current Classification
	
The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance 
sheet based on current/non-current classification. An asset 
is classified as current when it is
 
 
expected to be realized or intended to be sold or 
consumed in normal operating cycle
 
 
held primarily for the purpose of trading
 
 
expected to be realized within 12 months after the 
date of reporting period, or
 
 
Cash and cash equivalent unless restricted from being 
exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 12 
months after the reporting period.
	
Current assets include the current portion of non-current 
financial assets.
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
A liability is current when it is
 
 
expected to be settled in its normal operating cycle
 
 
held primarily for the purpose of trading
 
 
due to be settled within 12 months after the 
reporting period, or
 
 
does not have any unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after 
the reporting period.
	
Current liabilities include the current portion of long 
term financial liabilities. The Company classifies all other 
liabilities as non- current.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-
current assets and liabilities.
	
The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition of 
assets and their realization in cash and cash equivalents. The 
Company has identified 12 months as its operating cycle.
2.20	Fair Value Measurement
	
The Company measures financial instruments, such as, 
derivatives at fair value at each balance sheet date. Fair 
value is the price that would be received from the sale of an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. 
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption 
that the transaction to sell an asset or transfer the liability 
takes place either:
 
 
In the principal market for the asset or liability
 
 
In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability.
	
The principal or the most advantageous market must be 
accessible by the Company.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using 
the assumptions that market participants would use 
when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market 
participants act in their economic best interest.
	
The fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes 
into account a market participant’s ability to generate 
156  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and 
best use or by selling it to another market participant that 
would use the asset in its highest and best use.
	
The Company uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient 
data are available to measure fair value, maximizing the 
use of relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use 
of unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured 
or disclosed in the standalone financial statements are 
categorized within the fair value hierarchy, described as 
follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant 
to the fair value measurement as a whole:
 
 
Level 1 – Quoted (Unadjusted) Market prices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities
 
 
Level 2 –Valuation techniques for which the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable
 
 
Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is unobservable.
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the 
standalone financial statements on a recurring basis, 
the 
Company 
determines 
whether 
transfers 
have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing 
categorization (based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the 
end of each reporting period.
	
Other disclosures
	
1)	
There are no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of 
the fair value hierarchy during the period.
	
2)	
The valuation techniques used above are consistent 
with all periods presented.
	
Valuation Techniques used to determine fair value
	
1)	
Investments in Mutual Funds/ equity shares - are 
valued at net asset value declared by Association of 
Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) at the reporting date/ 
share market price.
	
2)	
Derivatives (recurring fair value measurement) - at 
values determined by counter parties / banks using 
market observable data.
2.21	Cash and cash equivalents
	
The Company considers all highly liquid financial 
instruments, which are readily convertible into known 
amounts of cash that are subject to an insignificant risk 
of change in value and having original maturities of three 
months or less, to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash 
equivalents consist of balances with banks which are 
unrestricted for withdrawal and usage.
2.22 Share Capital
	
Ordinary Shares
	
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental 
costs, if any, directly attributable to the issue of ordinary 
shares are recognized as a deduction from equity, net of 
any tax effects.
2.23	Dividend
	
Dividend on share is recorded as liability on the date of 
approval by the shareholders. A corresponding amount is 
recognized directly in equity.
2.24	Segment reporting
	
Information reported to the chief operating decision 
maker (CODM) for the purposes of resource allocation and 
assessment of segment performance focuses on the types 
of goods or services delivered or provided. The Company 
is in the business of manufacture and sale automobile 
components, which in the context of Indian Accounting 
Standard 108 ‘Segment Information’ represents single 
reportable business segment. The accounting policies of 
the reportable segments are the same as the accounting 
policies disclosed in Note 2. The revenues, total expenses 
and net profit as per the Statement of profit and loss 
represent the revenue, total expenses and the net profit of 
the sole reportable segment.
2.25 Provisions and contingent liabilities
	
A provision is recognized when the Company has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of past event 
and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be 
required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a 
reliable estimate can be made. The expense relating to a 
provision is presented in the statement of profit and loss 
net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value 
of money is material, provisions are discounted using a 
current pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the 
risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, 
the increase in the provision due to the passage of time 
is recognized as a finance cost. Provisions are reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current 
best estimates. Contingent liabilities are not recognized in 
the standalone financial statements.
	
Product warranty expenses:
	
The estimated liability for product warranties is accounted 
when products are sold. These estimates are established 
using historical information on the nature, frequency 
and average cost of warranty claims and management 
estimates regarding possible future incidence based on 
corrective actions on product failures.
157 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
	
The initial estimate of warranty related cost is revised at 
each balance sheet date.
2.26 Other income
	
Interest income
	
Interest income from a financial asset is recognized when 
it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the 
Company and the amount of income can be measured 
reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, 
by reference to the principal outstanding and at the 
effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through 
the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net 
carrying amount on initial recognition.
	
Others
	
The Company recognizes income on accrual basis. 
However, where the ultimate collection of the same lack 
reasonable certainty, income recognition is postponed 
to the extent income is reasonably certain and can be 
reliably measured.
2.27	Recent accounting pronouncements
	
Standards issued but not yet effective
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards. There 
is no such notification which would have been applicable 
from 01 April 2025.
2.28	New and amended standards
	
The Company applied for the first-time certain standards 
and amendments, which are effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1st April, 2024. The Company has not 
early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment 
that has been issued but is not yet effective.
	
(i)	
 Ind AS 117 Insurance Contracts
	
	
The Ministry of corporate Affairs (MCA) notified the 
Ind AS 117, Insurance Contracts, vide notification 
dated 12 August 2024, under the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2024, 
which is effective from annual reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1st April, 2024.
	
	
The application of Ind AS 117 had no impact on the 
Company’s standalone financial statements as the 
Company has not entered any contracts in the nature 
of insurance contracts covered under Ind AS 117.
	
(ii) 	 Amendment to Ind AS 116 Leases – Lease Liability 
in a Sale and Leaseback
	
	
The MCA notified the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Second Amendment Rules, 2024, which 
amend Ind AS 116, Leases, with respect to Lease 
Liability in a Sale and Leaseback.
	
	
The amendment specifies the requirements that 
a seller-lessee uses in measuring the lease liability 
arising in a sale and leaseback transaction, to ensure 
the seller-lessee does not recognise any amount of 
the gain or loss that relates to the right of use it retains.
	
	
The amendment is effective for annual reporting 
periods beginning on or after 1st April, 2024 and 
must be applied retrospectively to sale and leaseback 
transactions entered into after the date of initial 
application of Ind AS 116.
	
	
The amendment does not have a material impact on 
the Company’s financial statements.
158  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the standalone financial statements
H in million
Particulars
Gross Block
       Depreciation/Amortisation
Net Block
 As at 1st 
April, 2024
 Additions 
during the 
year
 Deductions 
during the 
year
 Transferred to 
Assets classified 
as held for sale
 As at 31st 
March, 2025
 As at 1st 
April, 2024
 For the 
year
 Deductions 
during the 
year
 Transferred to 
Assets classified 
as held for sale
 As at 31st 
March, 2025
 As at  31st 
March, 2025
(a)
 ( b) 
 ( c) 
 (d) 
(e=a+b-c-d)
 (f) 
 (g) 
 (h) 
 (i) 
(j=f+g-h-i)
(k=e-j)
(I) Property, plant and equipments (at cost)
Freehold land 
 97.61 
 - 
 - 
 97.61 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 97.61 
 (150.20)
 - 
 - 
 (52.59)
 (97.61)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (97.61)
Buildings 
 4,676.27 
 697.83 
 8.78 
 - 
 5,365.32 
 978.19 
 174.42 
 0.24 
 - 
 1,152.37 
 4,212.95 
 (4,372.19)
 (389.39)
 (85.31)
 (4,676.27)
 (850.51)
 (159.94)
 - 
 (32.26)
 (978.19)
 (3,698.08)
Plant and equipment
 23,038.91 
 3,715.08 
 522.65 
 - 
 26,231.34 
 11,911.40 
 2,397.23 
 474.62 
 - 
 13,834.01 
 12,397.33 
 (20,193.24)
 (3,461.65)
 (614.18)
 (1.80)
 (23,038.91)
 (10,270.72)
 (2,184.04)
 (541.61)
 (1.76)
 (11,911.39)
 (11,127.52)
Renewable energy generators
 173.67 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 173.67 
 63.79 
 6.79 
 - 
 - 
 70.58 
 103.09 
 (173.67)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (173.67)
 (57.01)
 (6.78)
 - 
 - 
 (63.79)
 (109.88)
Computers
 345.48 
 52.79 
 8.93 
 - 
 389.34 
 242.26 
 58.90 
 9.12 
 - 
 292.04 
 97.30 
 (285.10)
 (69.42)
 (9.03)
 (0.01)
 (345.48)
 (205.19)
 (46.07)
 (8.98)
 (0.01)
 (242.27)
 (103.21)
Electrical fittings 
 148.93 
 5.20 
 0.64 
 - 
 153.49 
 75.75 
 13.96 
 0.66 
 - 
 89.05 
 64.44 
 (132.02)
 (20.84)
 (3.93)
 - 
 (148.93)
 (65.39)
 (12.58)
 (2.22)
 - 
 (75.75)
 (73.18)
Vehicles
 277.48 
 102.51 
 22.48 
 - 
 357.51 
 153.62 
 48.19 
 21.01 
 - 
 180.80 
 176.71 
 (239.25)
 (54.46)
 (16.23)
 - 
 (277.48)
 (127.49)
 (38.98)
 (12.85)
 - 
 (153.62)
 (123.86)
Furniture and fixtures 
 222.85 
 49.57 
 1.51 
 - 
 270.91 
 126.40 
 20.39 
 1.43 
 - 
 145.36 
 125.55 
 (205.78)
 (21.50)
 (4.29)
 (0.14)
 (222.85)
 (112.34)
 (17.76)
 (3.61)
 (0.09)
 (126.40)
 (96.45)
Office equipments
 240.12 
 33.07 
 9.92 
 - 
 263.27 
 184.61 
 21.83 
 9.98 
 - 
 196.46 
 66.81 
 (221.11)
 (22.70)
 (3.69)
 - 
 (240.12)
 (164.34)
 (23.92)
 (3.65)
 - 
 (184.61)
 (55.51)
Total - I
 29,221.32 
 4,656.05 
 574.91 
 - 
 33,302.46 
 13,736.02 
 2,741.71 
 517.06 
 - 
 15,960.67 
 17,341.79 
Previous year as at 31st March, 2024
 (25,972.56)
 (4,039.96)
 (651.35)
 (139.85)
 (29,221.32)
 (11,852.99)
 (2,490.07)
 (572.92)
 (34.12)
 (13,736.02)
 (15,485.30)
3 Property, plant and equipment
159 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the standalone financial statements
H in million
Particulars
Gross Block
       Depreciation/Amortisation
Net Block
 As at 1st 
April, 2024
 Additions 
during the 
year
 Deductions 
during the 
year
 Transferred to 
Assets classified 
as held for sale
 As at 31st 
March, 2025
 As at 1st 
April, 2024
 For the 
year
 Deductions 
during the 
year
 Transferred to 
Assets classified 
as held for sale
 As at 31st 
March, 2025
 As at  31st 
March, 2025
(a)
 ( b) 
 ( c) 
 (d) 
(e=a+b-c-d)
 (f) 
 (g) 
 (h) 
 (i) 
(j=f+g-h-i)
(k=e-j)
(II) Right of use assets
Land
 2,139.67 
 87.33 
 - 
 - 
 2,227.00 
 127.59 
 26.68 
 - 
 - 
 154.27 
 2,072.73 
 (2,139.67)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2,139.67)
 (101.50)
 (26.09)
 - 
 - 
 (127.59)
 (2,012.08)
Buildings
 131.93 
 195.57 
 4.06 
 - 
 323.44 
 62.34 
 31.61 
 0.56 
 - 
 93.39 
 230.05 
 (129.75)
 (2.18)
 - 
 - 
 (131.93)
 (38.96)
 (23.38)
 - 
 - 
 (62.34)
 (69.59)
Total - II
2,271.60 
 282.90 
 4.06 
 - 
 2,550.44 
 189.93 
 58.29 
 0.56 
 - 
 247.66 
 2,302.78 
Previous year as at 31st March, 2024
 (2,269.42)
 (2.18)
 - 
 - 
 (2,271.60)
 (140.46)
 (49.47)
 - 
 - 
 (189.93)
 (2,081.67)
Total - (I+II)
 31,492.92 
 4,938.95 
 578.97 
 - 
 35,852.90 
 13,925.95 
 2,800.00 
 517.62 
 - 
 16,208.33 
 19,644.57 
Previous year as at 31st March, 2024
 (28,241.98)
 (4,042.14)
 (651.35)
 (139.85)
 (31,492.92)
 (11,993.45)
 (2,539.54)
 (572.92)
 (34.12)
 (13,925.95)
 (17,566.97)
(III) Other intangible assets (at cost) 
    (Other than internally generated)
Technical know-how
 581.85 
 241.43 
 - 
 - 
 823.28 
 169.68 
 76.24 
 - 
 - 
 245.92 
 577.36 
 (581.85)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (581.85)
 (109.98)
 (59.70)
 - 
 - 
 (169.68)
 (412.17)
Software
 242.96 
 19.17 
 0.44 
 - 
 261.69 
 210.67 
 20.27 
 0.41 
 - 
 230.53 
 31.16 
 (227.64)
 (15.40)
 (0.08)
 - 
 (242.96)
 (184.82)
 (25.92)
 (0.07)
 - 
 (210.67)
 (32.29)
Total - III
 824.81 
 260.60 
 0.44 
 - 
 1,084.97 
 380.35 
 96.51 
 0.41 
 - 
 476.45 
 608.52 
Previous year as at 31st March, 2024
 (809.49)
 (15.40)
 (0.08)
 - 
 (824.81)
 (294.80)
 (85.62)
 (0.07)
 - 
 (380.35)
 (444.46)
Total - (I+II+III)
 32,317.73 
 5,199.55 
 579.41 
 - 
 36,937.87 
 14,306.30 
 2,896.51 
 518.03 
 - 
 16,684.78 
 20,253.09 
Previous year as at 31st March, 2024
 (29,051.47)
 (4,057.54)
 (651.43)
 (139.85)
 (32,317.73)
 (12,288.25)
 (2,625.16)
 (572.99)
 (34.12)
 (14,306.30)
 (18,011.43)
160  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
H in million
Particulars
Amounts in CWIP for a period of
Aging as on 31st March, 2025
Less than 1 
year
 Between 
1-2 years 
Between 2-3 
years
 More than 
3 years 
Total
Projects in progress
 2,059.26 
 9.61 
 0.80 
 - 
 2,069.67 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Aging as on 31st March, 2024
Amounts in CWIP for a period of
Less than 1 
year
 Between 1-2 
years 
Between 2-3 
years
 More than 3 
years 
Total
Projects in progress
 856.11 
 148.01 
 18.60 
 - 
 1,022.72 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Intangible assets under development
Amounts in Intangible assets under development for a period of
Aging as on 31st March, 2024
Less than 1 
year
 Between 1-2 
years 
Between 2-3 
years
 More than 3 
years 
Total
Projects in progress
 53.64 
 73.59 
 49.69 
 - 
 176.92 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Intangible assets under development
Amounts in Intangible assets under development for a period of
Aging as on 31st march, 2025
Less than 1 
year
 Between 
1-2 years 
Between 2-3 
years
 More than 
3 years 
Total
Projects in progress
 28.15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 28.15 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Note: 3A
Capital Work - in - Progress
Other Notes:	
i) 	
Figures in brackets represent figures of previous year.
ii) 	
There are no immovable properties whose title deeds are not held in the name of the Company or which are jointly held 
with others, other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease arrangements are duly executed in the 
favour of the lessee.
iii) 	
For CWIP and Intangible assets under development, there are no projects whose completion date is overdue or its cost exceeded 
as compared to its original plan for the year ended at 31st March, 2025 and for the year ended at 31st March, 2024.
iv) 	
Capital work in progress (CWIP) majorly includes Plant & machinery and buildings.
v) 	
Intangible assets under development majorly includes Software
161 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
4	
Investments in subsidiaries
4A	 Non-current investments	
4B	 Current investments	
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Investments in equity shares (all fully paid, measured at cost, unquoted) :
	
Endurance GmbH (Refer note 25a)
 1,930.62 
 1,930.62 
	
Endurance Overseas SpA  (Refer note 25b)
 1,706.99 
 1,706.99 
	
Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited (Refer note 25c and note 38(i))
 1,425.62 
 1,425.61 
	
[84,258 (Previous year 76,723) equity shares of face value H1 each]
Total
 5,063.23 
 5,063.22 
 H in million 
Particulars
 As at 
31st March, 2025 
 As at 
31st March, 2024 
I
Investments in equity shares (all fully paid, unquoted) :
a. 	 Measured at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)
	
Watsun Infrabuild Pvt Ltd
                 1.45 
                 1.45 
	
[145,201 (Previous year 145,201) equity shares of face value H 10 each]
	
Marathwada Auto Cluster
               10.00 
               10.00 
	
[10,000 (Previous year 10,000) shares of face value H 100 each]
b. 	 Measured at fair value through Statement of Profit and Loss 
	
TP Green Nature Limited (Refer note 26(a))
               39.62 
               22.14 
	
[11,966,298 (Previous year 6,584,488) equity shares of face value H 10 each]
	
Dalavaipuram Renewables Private Limited (Refer note 26(b))
                 7.70 
                    - 
	
[1,065,641 (Previous year Nil) equity shares of face value H 10 each]
II
Other investments  (all fully paid, unquoted) :
	
Measured at amortised cost
	
	
National Savings Certificates
                 0.04 
                 0.04 
III
Investments in equity shares (all fully paid, quoted) :
a. 	 Measured at fair value through Statement of Profit and Loss
	
Indian Overseas Bank 
                 0.10 
                 0.14 
	
[2,300 (Previous year 2,300) equity shares of face value H 10 each]
b. 	 Measured at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) 
	
Pierer Mobility AG (Refer note 27)
               97.57 
              241.19 
	
[57,422 (Previous year 57,422) equity shares]
Total Investments (I+II+III)
           156.48 
            274.96 
 H in million 
Particulars
 As at 
31st March, 2025 
 As at 
31st March, 2024 
Investment in mutual funds, measured at fair value through profit or loss (Quoted, fully paid)
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth  
             444.10 
              409.34 
	
14,543,498.154 units (Previous year 14,543,498.154 units) 
HDFC Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth  
             323.44 
              297.18 
 	
9,944,428.346 units (Previous year 9,944,428.346 units) 
SBI Magnum Gilt Fund - Direct Growth  
               79.39 
               72.53 
 	
1,148,912.216 units (Previous year 1,148,912.216 units) 
SBI Arbitrage Opportunities-Dir P G 
             109.78 
              101.76 
 	
3,108,852.597 units (Previous year 3,108,852.597 units) 
SBI Banking and PSU Fund - Direct Growth 
             110.35 
              101.77 
 	
34,093.171 units (Previous year 34,093.171 units) 
UTI Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan 
             197.32 
              181.77 
 	
12,056,305.793 units (Previous year 12,056,305.793 units) 
162  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
 As at 
31st March, 2025 
 As at 
31st March, 2024 
Bandhan Low Duration Fund - Growth Direct Plan 
             251.52 
              233.52 
 	
6,496,810.517 units  (Previous year 6,496,810.517 units) 
Bandhan Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan Growth 
             145.85 
              134.31 
	
7,536,554.134 units  (Previous year 7,536,554.134 units) 
Kotak Floating Rate fund - Growth Direct Plan 
             261.08 
              239.77 
	
173,067.799 units (Previous year 173,067.799 units) 
ABSL Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Growth Direct Plan 
             205.76 
              189.67 
	
553,166.818 units (Previous year 553,166.818 units) 
ABSL Corporate Bond Fund - Growth Direct 
             147.11 
              135.14 
	
1,308,896.758 units (Previous year 1,308,896.758 units) 
Axis Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Direct Growth 
             196.70 
              181.61 
	
74,010.823 units (Previous year 74,010.823 units) 
Kotak Corporate Bond - Direct Growth 
             146.97 
              135.02 
	
38,194.464 units (Previous year 38,194.464 units ) 
SBI Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan Growth 
             111.13 
              102.17 
	
7,120,685.853 units (Previous year 7,120,685.853 units) 
Kotak Equity Arbitrage Dir-G 
             114.99 
              106.33 
	
2,922,130.113 units (Previous year 2,922,130.113 units) 
UTI Money Market Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
             170.37 
              157.93 
55,664.411 units (Previous year 55,664.411 units) 
Axis Money Market Fund Direct Growth 
             170.50 
              157.98 
	
120,411.883 units (Previous year 120,411.883 units) 
UTI Arbitrage Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
             109.91 
              101.77 
	
2,999,475.073 units (Previous year 2,999,475.073 units) 
UTI Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
                    - 
              311.31 
	
Nil units (Previous year 78,653.586 units ) 
Bandhan Liquid Fund-Growth-(Direct Plan) 
             450.82 
              540.98 
	
143,914.496 units (Previous year 185,436.015 units) 
DSP Liquidity Fund - Direct Plan 
             321.96 
              130.36 
	
86,821.259 units (Previous year 37,771.757 units) 
SBI Liquid Fund Direct Growth 
             200.36 
                    - 
	
49,400.013 units (Previous year Nil units) 
 ABSL Liquid Fund Growth Direct 
             300.50 
                    - 
 	
717,775.258 units (Previous year Nil units) 
Axis Liquid Fund - Direct Growth (CFDGG) 
             110.77 
                    - 
	
38,415.228 units (Previous year Nil units) 
LIC MF Liquid Fund - Direct Plan-Growth 
             201.38 
                    - 
	
42,763.126 Units (Previous year Nil) 
Kotak Liquid Direct Growth 
             301.59 
                    - 
	
575,62.669 units (Previous year Nil) 
Total
        5,183.65 
        4,022.22 
163 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Loan to subsidiary (Refer note 39)
 137.00 
 100.00 
Total
 137.00 
 100.00 
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Loan to employees
 33.63 
 19.95 
Total
 33.63 
 19.95 
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Interest accrued on deposits
 - 
 0.03 
(b)	 Receivable for sale of property, plant and equipment
 37.39 
 34.13 
(c)	 Foreign currency derivative assets
 0.39 
 1.25 
(d)	 Government incentives receivables
 1,883.76 
 1,604.65 
(e)	 Export incentive (RODTEP, Duty drawback)
 18.45 
 15.49 
(f)	 Others
 4.86 
 8.35 
Total
 1,944.85 
 1,663.90 
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Security deposits
 132.74 
 111.52 
(b)	 Sales tax receivable
 3.08 
 3.08 
Total
 135.82 
 114.60 
5	
Non current - Loans
	
(unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)
5A	 Current - Loans
	
(unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)
5B	 Other current financial assets
	
(unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)
5C	 Other non-current financial assets
	
(unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Capital advances
 469.23 
 223.22 
(d)	 Prepayments
 98.72 
 54.46 
(c)	 Income tax paid in advance less provision
 - 
 56.69 
(d)	 Income tax deposited under protest
 56.79 
 84.15 
Total
 624.74 
 418.52 
6	
Other non-current assets
	
(unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)
164  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Advances for supplies
 297.54 
 90.98 
(b)	 Prepayments
 135.09 
 100.76 
(c)	 Others1
 30.80 
 8.23 
Total
 463.43 
 199.97 
1Includes amount of H 3.04 million  (Previous year H 1.06 million) paid to various regulatory authorities under protest.
6A	 Other current assets
	
(unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Raw materials and components  
 2,024.34 
 1,537.49 
(b)	 Work-in-progress 
 1,432.56 
 1,316.34 
(c)	 Finished goods (other than those acquired for trading)
 1,510.60 
 1,330.32 
(d)	 Stock-in-trade (acquired for trading)
 94.30 
 105.11 
(e)	 Stores, spares and packing material
 464.61 
 445.80 
(f)	 Loose tools and instruments
 94.42 
 82.07 
Total
 5,620.83 
 4,817.13 
Included above, Goods-in-transit in respect to
(i)	 Raw materials and components
 247.99 
 132.43 
(ii)	 Finished goods (Other than those acquired for trading)
 225.31 
 198.71 
Total
 473.30 
 331.14 
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Unsecured : 
i) 	 Considered good 
 11,322.49 
 10,684.35 
ii) 	 Credit impaired 
 67.34 
 1.27 
Less: Allowance for credit impaired
 (67.34)
 (1.27)
Total
 11,322.49 
 10,684.35 
7	
Inventories (valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)
8	
Trade receivables
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 6 
months
Between 
6 months  - 1 year
Between 
1 - 2 years
Between 
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
31st March, 2025
i) 	 Undisputed Trade receivables considered 
good
 11,295.59 
 21.64 
 3.20 
 1.34 
 0.72 
11,322.49 
ii) 	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iii) 	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 52.15 
 0.89 
 14.10 
 0.11 
 0.09 
 67.34 
iv) 	 Disputed Trade receivables – considered 
good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
v) 	 Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
vi) 	 Disputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 11,347.74 
 22.53 
 17.30 
   1.45 
 0.81  11,389.83 
Ageing schedule:	 	
	
165 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Cash on hand
 0.14 
 0.79 
(b)	 Balances with banks:
	
i) 	 In current accounts
 921.34 
 156.09 
Total
 921.48 
 156.88 
9	
Cash and cash equivalents		
	
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 6 
months
Between 
6 months  - 1 year
Between 
1 - 2 years
Between 
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
31st March,2024
i) 	 Undisputed Trade receivables considered 
good
 10,669.65 
 10.68 
 2.41 
 0.10 
 1.51 
 10,684.35 
ii) 	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iii) 	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv) 	 Disputed Trade receivables – considered 
good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
v) 	 Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
vi) 	 Disputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.27 
 1.27 
Total
 10,669.65 
 10.68 
 2.41 
 0.10 
 2.78  10,685.62 
Notes:
1	
Trade receivables are dues in respect of goods sold or services rendered in the normal course of business.
2	
The normal credit period allowed by the Company ranges from 30 to 60 days for customers in India and 30 to 120 days for 
overseas customers.
3	
There are no unbilled receivables, hence the same is not disclosed in the ageing schedule.
4	
No trade receivables are due from Directors or other officers of the Company, either severally or jointly. Trade receivables include 
H 244.95 million (previous year H 56.35 million) due from the Company’s subsidiaries. (Refer note 34)
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Other bank balances (in earmarked accounts)
 (i) 	In current account for equity dividend 
 0.44 
 0.42 
 (ii) 	Balance held as margin money* 
 0.01 
 0.12 
Total
 0.45 
 0.54 
*Represents margin money amounting to H 0.01 million (Previous year H 0.12 million) against various guarantees and letters of credit issued by banks on behalf of 
the Company. These deposits are not available for use by the Company as the same is in the nature of restricted cash
9A	 Other bank balances	
166  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
No. of shares
Amount
No. of shares
Amount
A.	 Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid-up 
share capital
Authorised:
Equity shares of H 10 each  
(Previous year H 10 each)
 16,50,00,000 
 1,650.00 
16,50,00,000
 1,650.00 
Total 
 16,50,00,000 
 1,650.00 
 16,50,00,000 
 1,650.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up:
Equity shares of H 10 each  
(Previous year H 10 each)
14,06,62,848
 1,406.63 
14,06,62,848
 1,406.63 
Total 
 14,06,62,848 
 1,406.63 
 14,06,62,848 
 1,406.63 
 H in million
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
No. of shares
Amount
No. of shares
Amount
No of shares outstanding at the beginning of the year 
    - 	Equity shares  
14,06,62,848
 1,406.63 
14,06,62,848
 1,406.63 
No of shares outstanding at the end of the year 
 14,06,62,848 
 1,406.63 
 14,06,62,848 
 1,406.63 
10	 Share Capital
B.	
Reconciliation of the number of shares and amount outstanding at the  beginning and at the end of the reporting year
C.	
Notes
i)	
Details of shares held by the promoter and members of the promoter group in the Company are as follows:
Particulars
No. of shares as at 
31st March, 2025
%
No. of shares as at 
31st March, 2024
%
Equity shares:
1 	 Mr. Anurang Jain
 4,33,96,896 
 30.85 
4,33,96,896
 30.85 
2 	 Mr. Anurang Jain1
 2,83,00,000 
 20.12 
2,83,00,000
 20.12 
3 	 Mrs. Suman Jain2
 1,68,90,000 
 12.01 
1,68,90,000
 12.01 
4 	 Mr. Naresh Chandra3
 1,69,10,000 
 12.02 
1,69,10,000
 12.02 
5 	 Mrs. Varsha Jain*
 80 
 0.00 
 80 
 0.00 
6 	 Mrs. Rhea Jain Kapoor*
 80 
 0.00 
 80 
 0.00 
7 	 Mr. Rohan Jain*
 80 
 0.00 
 80 
 0.00 
* % below 0.01%.
ii)	
Details of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares in the Company are as follows:
Particulars
No. of shares as at 
31st March, 2025
%
No. of shares as at 
31st March, 2024
%
Equity shares:
1 	 Mr. Anurang Jain
 4,33,96,896 
 30.85 
 4,33,96,896 
 30.85 
2 	 Mr. Anurang Jain1
 2,83,00,000 
 20.12 
 2,83,00,000 
 20.12 
3 	 Mrs. Suman Jain2
 1,68,90,000 
 12.01 
 1,68,90,000 
 12.01 
4 	 Mr. Naresh Chandra3
 1,69,10,000 
 12.02 
 1,69,10,000 
 12.02 
1	
Held by Mr. Anurang Jain in his capacity as the family trustee of the Anurang Rohan Trust (“Anurang Rohan Trust”). The Anurang Rohan Trust is a private 
family trust, settled by Mr. Anurang Jain, pursuant to a deed of settlement dated 11th June, 2016 as amended by a deed of amendment dated 23rd June, 
2016 (the “Anurang Rohan Trust Deed”). The trustees of the Anurang Rohan Trust are Mr. Anurang Jain and Mrs. Varsha Jain, as the family trustees, and 
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Limited, as the managing trustee. Pursuant to the Anurang Rohan Trust Deed, Mr. Anurang Jain shall, as long as he is 
acting as the family trustee, exclusively exercise voting rights in respect of these equity shares.
2	
Held by Mrs. Suman Jain in her capacity as the family trustee of NC Trust (“NC Trust”). The NC Trust is a private family trust settled by Mr. Naresh Chandra, 
pursuant to a deed of settlement dated 15th June, 2016 (the “NC Trust Deed”). The trustees of the NC Trust are Mrs. Suman Jain, as the family trustee, and 
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Limited, as the managing trustee. Pursuant to the NC Trust Deed, Mrs. Suman Jain shall, as long as she is acting as the 
family trustee, exclusively exercise voting rights in respect of these equity shares.
167 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Reserves and surplus
(a)	 Securities premium (refer note (i) below) 
 	
Balance at the beginning and at the end of the year 
 160.40 
 160.40 
(b)	 General reserve (refer note (ii) below) 
 	
Balance at the beginning and at the end of the year 
 1,208.89 
 1,208.89 
(c)	 Retained earnings (refer note (iii) below)
 	
Balance at the beginning of the year 
 35,351.32 
 30,487.04 
 	
Profit for the year 
 6,786.59 
 5,877.93 
 	
Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 
 (32.75)
 (29.01)
 	
Dividend including interim dividend (Refer note 38) 
 (1,195.63)
 (984.64)
 	
Balance at the end of the year 
 40,909.53 
 35,351.32 
Other reserves
(a) 	Equity instruments through other comprehensive income (refer note (iv) below) 
 	
Balance at the beginning of the year 
 (74.04)
 46.45 
 	
Fair valuation gain/(loss) for the year 
 (131.32)
 (120.49)
 	
Balance at the end of the year 
 (205.36)
 (74.04)
Total
 42,073.46 
 36,646.57 
(i)	
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for limited purposes such as issuance of bonus shares 
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
(ii)	
General reserve was created through an annual transfer of net income at a specified percentage in accordance with applicable regulations under the 
erstwhile Companies Act 1956. Consequent to introduction of Companies Act 2013, the requirement to mandatorily transfer a specified percentage of the 
net profit to general reserve has been withdrawn. 	
(iii)	
Retained earnings are the profits/(loss) that the Company has earned/incurred till date, less any transfers to general reserve, dividends or other distributions 
paid to shareholders. Retained earnings include re-measurement loss / (gain) on defined benefit plans, net of taxes that will not be reclassified to Statement 
of Profit and Loss.
(iv)	
The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other comprehensive income. These changes 
are accumulated within the Equity instruments through Other Comprehensive Income within equity. The Company may transfers amounts from this reserve to 
retained earnings when the relevant equity securities are derecognised.	
10A	Other equity	
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Lease liabilities (Refer note 11.01 and 40)
 194.42 
 58.96 
 194.42 
 58.96 
11	 Non current lease liabilities	
	
	
3	
Held by Mr. Naresh Chandra in his capacity as the family trustee of Anurang Rhea Trust (“Anurang Rhea Trust”). The Anurang Rhea Trust is a private 
family trust settled by Mrs. Suman Jain, pursuant to a deed of settlement dated 15th June, 2016 (the “Anurang Rhea Trust Deed”). The trustees of the 
Anurang Rhea Trust are Mr. Naresh Chandra, as the family trustee, and Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Limited, as the managing trustee. Pursuant 
to the Anurang Rhea Trust Deed, Mr. Naresh Chandra shall, as long as he is acting as the family trustee, exclusively exercise voting rights in respect of 
these equity shares.
iii)	
The Company has only one class of equity shares. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share held. In the event 
of liquidation of the Company, the holder of the equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets after deducting all its 
liabilities in proportion to the number of equity shares held.
168  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
Current maturities
2025-26
 51.87 
Non-current maturities
2026-27
 56.12 
2027-28
 51.30 
2028-29
 43.34 
2029-30
 43.66 
Total
 194.42 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024 
Current maturities
2024-25
 21.26 
Non-current maturities
2025-26
 21.76 
2026-27
 23.63 
2027-28
 13.57 
Total
 58.96 
11.01	
Maturity profile	
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
(a) 	Security deposits received from dealers 
 91.79 
 104.29 
(b) 	Retention money payable 
 41.48 
 24.69 
Total
 133.27 
 128.98 
12	 Other non-current financial liabilities
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Foreign currency derivative liabilities
 9.31 
 22.46 
(b)	 Unpaid equity dividend*
 0.44 
 0.42 
(c)	 Payables on purchase of property, plant and equipment
 590.01 
 490.62 
(d)	 Deferred payable for technical knowhow
 - 
 62.02 
Total
 599.76 
 575.52 
* There are no amounts that are required to be credited to Investor Education and Protection Fund as on 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024
12A	Other current financial liabilities
169 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Provision for warranty (Refer note 13A.01)
 35.95 
 40.68 
Total
 35.95 
 40.68 
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Lease liability (Refer note 11.01 and 40)
 51.87 
 21.26 
Total
 51.87 
 21.26 
13	 Non-current provisions	
	
	
14	 Current lease liabilities
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Provision for employee benefits:
 	
i) 	 Provision for compensated absences 
 44.74 
 50.85 
 	
ii) 	 Provision for gratuity (Refer note 29) 
 129.51 
 120.89 
(b)	 Provision for others:
	
i) 	 Provision for warranty (Refer note 13A.01)
 85.87 
 70.31 
Total
 260.12 
 242.05 
13A	Current provisions
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Carrying amount as at 1st April
 110.99 
 84.94 
Provision made during the year
 74.51 
 101.19 
Discounting/unwinding effect
 - 
 (1.99)
Amount paid/utilised during the year
 (63.68)
 (73.15)
Carrying amount as at 31st March
 121.82 
 110.99 
Provision for warranty: The Company gives warranties on certain products from the date of sale, for their satisfactory performance 
during the warranty period as per the contracts with buyers. Provision for warranty claims arising out of such obligation is made based 
on such warranty period.
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Trade payable for goods and services
i)  Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (Refer note 30)
 1,012.74 
 734.98 
ii) Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises 
 7,137.38 
 6,027.09 
Total
 8,150.12 
 6,762.07 
13A.01 Details of provision for warranty
15 	 Trade payables
170  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
Between 
1 - 2 years
Between 
2 - 3 years
More than 3 
years
31st March, 2025
i) 	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and 
small enterprises ('MSME')
 1,012.74 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,012.74 
ii) 	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than 
micro enterprises and small enterprises
 6,874.50 
 78.38 
 144.76 
 39.74 
 7,137.38 
iii) 	 Disputed dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv) 	 Disputed dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 7,887.24 
 78.38 
 144.76 
 39.74 
 8,150.12 
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
Between 
1 - 2 years
Between 
2 - 3 years
More than 3 
years
31st March, 2024
i) 	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and 
small enterprises ('MSME')
 734.98 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 734.98 
ii) 	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than 
micro enterprises and small enterprises
 5,690.20 
 110.93 
 199.62 
 26.34 
 6,027.09 
iii) 	 Disputed dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv) 	 Disputed dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 6,425.18 
 110.93 
 199.62 
 26.34 
 6,762.07 
Notes
i)	
Trade payables include H Nil (previous year H 9.47 million ) due to the Company’s subsidiary. For terms and conditions relating to 
related party receivables, refer Note 34.
ii)	
Trade payables are non interest bearing and are normally settled in 0 to 90 days. 
Trade payables ageing schedule:
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Advances received from customers 
 113.72 
 145.74 
(b)	 Income received in advance 
 5.28 
 3.52 
(c)	 Statutory remittances 
	
(contributions to PF, ESIC, Withholding taxes, Goods and Service tax etc.)  
 640.47 
 607.26 
Total
 759.47 
 756.52 
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Provision for income tax (net of advance taxes and taxes deducted at source) 
 160.38 
 75.76 
Total
 160.38 
 75.76 
16	 Other current liabilities
17	 Current tax liabilities (net)
171 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Revenue from contracts with customers
 87,303.22 
 77,577.72 
(b)	 Other operating revenue 
 1,158.26 
 1,132.28 
Total
 88,461.48 
 78,710.00 
18	 Revenue from operations (Refer note 18.01)
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Deferred tax liabilities
On account of temporary differences in
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 (194.68)
 (183.60)
Fair valuation of investment in mutual funds
 (95.33)
 (86.67)
Total
 (290.01)
 (270.27)
Deferred tax assets
On account of temporary differences in
Provision for employee benefits
 43.85 
 43.22 
Provision for expected credit loss
 16.95 
 0.32 
Expenses disallowed
 57.98 
 65.05 
Fair valuation of equity investments
 34.27 
 21.97 
Others
 3.42 
 1.67 
Total
 156.47 
 132.23 
Net deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
 (133.54)
 (138.04)
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
 	
Revenue from contracts with customers 
i)	
Goods transferred at a point in time 
 	
Sale of manufactured goods 
 	
Shock absorbers 
 30,592.43 
 27,280.31 
 	
Disc brake assembly (including rotary disc) 
 12,258.82 
 10,368.09 
 	
Aluminium die casting parts 
 25,445.02 
 22,926.66 
 	
Alloy wheels 
 8,526.99 
 7,601.55 
 	
Clutch and clutch parts  
 4,407.87 
 4,121.68 
 	
Others 
 4,690.52 
 4,096.06 
 	
Total - (A) 
 85,921.65 
 76,394.35 
 	
Sale of traded goods 
 	
Components and spares 
 1,158.44 
 911.63 
 	
Total - (B) 
 1,158.44 
 911.63 
 	
Total - (A+B) 
 87,080.09 
 77,305.98 
ii)	 Services transferred over time 
 	
Job work charges - (C) 
 223.13 
 271.74 
 	
Revenue from contracts with customers ( A+B+C ) 
 87,303.22 
 77,577.72 
	
 Other operating revenue comprises: 
 	
Scrap sales 
 370.52 
 289.55 
 	
Government incentives [Refer note 35 (a)] 
 741.89 
 792.35 
 	
Export incentives [Refer note 35 (b)] 
 45.85 
 50.38 
 	
Total 
 1,158.26 
 1,132.28 
	
Revenue from operations
 88,461.48
 78,710.00 
17A Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
18.01 Details of revenue from contracts with customers and other operating revenue
172  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
 Outside India 
 2,070.89 
 2,283.67 
 India 
 85,232.33 
 75,294.05 
18.03 Reconciliation of amount of revenue recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss with the contracted price
 
Revenue as per contracted price 
 87,661.02 
 77,888.35 
Adjustments: 
Discounts 
 357.80 
 310.63 
Revenue from contracts with customers
 87,303.22 
 77,577.72 
18.02 Revenue from contracts with customers
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Interest income 
 	
i) 	 Bank deposits 
 0.01 
 2.99 
 	
ii) 	 Others 
 22.04 
 10.38 
(b)	 Dividend income from long term investments 
 2.56 
 5.61 
(c)	 Other non operating income 
 	
i) 	 Excess provision/creditors' balances written back 
 18.40 
 11.13 
 	
ii) 	 Income from investments in mutual funds* 
 397.95 
 296.33 
 	
iii) 	 Profit on sale of property plant and equipment (net) 
 65.58 
 68.45 
 	
iv) 	 Miscellaneous income 
 74.86 
 47.24 
(d) 	Net gain on foreign currency transactions (other than considered as finance cost)
 84.42 
 52.58 
Total
 665.82 
 494.71 
* Includes gain on sale of investments H 133.91 million (previous year H 92.54 million) and gain on fair value changes H 264.04 million (previous year H 203.79 million). 
19	 Other income
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Opening stock (including goods in transit)
 1,537.49 
 1,154.11 
Add: Purchases
 57,625.64 
 51,457.58 
 59,163.13 
 52,611.69 
Less: Closing stock  (including goods in transit)
 2,024.34 
 1,537.49 
Cost of materials consumed
 57,138.79 
 51,074.20 
Cost of materials capitalised
 (275.32)
 (206.60)
Total 
 56,863.47 
 50,867.60 
Material consumed comprises  
i) 	 Aluminium alloy
 17,631.85 
 16,271.88 
ii) 	 Others
 39,506.94 
 34,802.32 
Total
 57,138.79 
 51,074.20 
20A	 Cost of materials consumed	
173 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Components and spares
 706.73 
 603.81 
Total
 706.73 
 603.81 
20B Purchases of stock-in-trade (traded goods)
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Inventories at the end of the year
  	
Finished goods
 (1,510.60)
 (1,330.32)
  	
Work-in-progress
 (1,432.56)
 (1,316.34)
  	
Stock-in-trade
 (94.30)
 (105.11)
Inventories at the beginning of the year
	
Finished goods
 1,330.32 
 1,460.46 
	
Work-in-progress
 1,316.34 
 1,103.63 
  	
Stock-in-trade
 105.11 
 123.32 
Net increase
 (285.69)
 (64.36)
20C	 Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Salary, wages and bonus 
 3,931.23 
 3,433.23 
(b)	 Contribution to provident and other funds (Refer note 29) 
 298.06 
 267.03 
(c)	  Staff welfare expenses
 128.47 
 100.98 
Total
 4,357.76 
 3,801.24 
21	 Employee benefits expense
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Interest expenses on
 	
i) 	 Borrowings 
 10.27 
 13.51 
 	
ii) 	 Lease liability 
 7.74 
 7.31 
 	
iii) 	 Others 
 1.73 
 2.96 
(b)	 Other borrowing costs
	
i) 	 Bank charges
 5.88 
 6.16 
Total
 25.62 
 29.94 
22	 Finance costs
23	 Other expenses
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Stores and spares consumed 
 1,473.35 
 1,389.98 
Packing material consumed 
 666.19 
 608.60 
Tools and instruments consumed 
 367.51 
 370.43 
Processing charges 
 2,747.72 
 2,271.96 
Labour charges 
 2,498.11 
 2,091.88 
Power, water and fuel 
 3,418.47 
 3,102.56 
Rent 
 75.38 
 82.67 
174  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Repairs and maintenance: 
	
Plant and machinery 
 990.10 
 857.68 
	
Building 
 69.27 
 84.13 
	
General 
 304.89 
 268.60 
Insurance 
 98.69 
 93.62 
Rates and taxes 
 19.20 
 28.66 
Travelling and conveyance 
 341.76 
 301.19 
Freight 
 1,110.07 
 980.82 
Advertisement 
 4.94 
 7.02 
Payment to auditors (Refer note 23.01) 
 11.52 
 11.24 
Directors fees and travelling expenses 
 37.43 
 38.05 
Warranty claims 
 78.41 
 101.35 
Expenditure on corporate social responsibility (Refer note 37) 
 125.00 
 110.10 
Miscellaneous expenses 
 933.87 
 692.21 
Total
 15,371.88 
 13,492.75 
Expenses capitalised
 (63.19)
 (54.16)
Total
 15,308.69 
 13,438.59 
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
As auditor
	
Audit fee
 10.02 
 9.38 
	
Expenses reimbursed
 0.63 
 1.35 
	
For other services - certification etc.
 0.87 
 0.51 
Total
 11.52 
 11.24 
23.01 Payment to auditors
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Current tax expenses 
 2,296.81 
 1,947.64 
(b)	 Short/(excess) provision for tax relating to prior years
 (21.59)
 (117.48)
(c)	 Deferred tax charge / (credit)
 18.81 
 194.64 
Total
 2,294.03 
 2,024.80 
24	 Taxes
Income tax expense	
(i)	
Statement of Profit and Loss section
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Net (loss)/ gain on remeasurement of defined benefit plan 
 (43.77)
 (38.77)
(b)	 Income tax charged to OCI on remeasurement of defined benefit plan
 11.02 
 9.76 
(c)	 Net (loss)/gain on fair valuation of investment in equity shares
 (143.62)
 (156.24)
(d)	 Income tax charged to OCI on fair valuation of investment in equity shares
 12.30 
 35.75 
(ii)	 Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) Section
175 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Accounting profit before income tax
 9,080.62 
 7,902.73 
(b)	 Enacted tax rate in India
25.17%
25.17%
(c)	 Computed tax expense
 2,285.41 
 1,988.96 
(d)	 Reconciliation items
	
i) 	 CSR expenditure & Donation
 125.02 
 110.10 
	
ii) 	 Adjustment to Property, plant and equipment balances on account of EPCG
 23.58 
 21.22 
	
iii) 	 Capital gain on sale of land chargeable to tax at capital gain tax rate
 (21.41)
 - 
	
iv) 	 Others
 56.31 
 (15.00)
	
v) 	 Depreciation on leasehold land
 26.68 
 26.09 
(e)	 Net adjustment 
 210.18 
 142.41 
(f)	 Tax expense/ (saving) on net adjustment (e x b)
 52.90 
 35.84 
(g)	 Tax effect of change in tax rate related to investments from mutual funds
 (56.59)
 - 
(h)	 Tax on Investment in Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited
 2.90 
 - 
(i)	 Long term capital gain Tax on Takve assets sale
 9.41 
 - 
(j) 	 Net tax expense recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss (c+f+g+h+i)
 2,294.03 
 2,024.80 
(iii)	 Reconciliation of effective tax rate
25	 a)	
Endurance GmbH, Germany
	
	
The total investment of the Company in Endurance GmbH, Germany (a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) as on 
31st March, 2025 amounts to H 1,930.62 million (Euro 30.93 million) [Previous year H 1,930.62 million (Euro 30.93 million)]
	
b)	
Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy (EOSpA) (formerly Endurance Overseas Srl,(EOSrl))
	
	
The total investment of the Company in EOSrl as at 31st March, 2025 amounts to H 1,706.99 million (Euro 25.83 million) 
[Previous year H 1,706.99 million (Euro 25.83 million)].
	
c)	
Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited
	
The Company executed a Share Subscription and Purchase Agreement dated 18th May, 2022 (‘the Agreement’) with Maxwell 
Energy Systems Private Limited ("Maxwell") and its erstwhile shareholders for acquiring 100% of the equity share capital of 
Maxwell in a phased manner. Maxwell is engaged in manufacture of battery management systems (BMS) for electric vehicles. On 
1st July, 2022 the Company acquired 51% stake in the equity share capital of Maxwell through a combination of primary issuance 
and secondary purchase and paid a consideration of H 1,350.00 million and  stamp duty charges of H 6.18 million. As a result, 
Maxwell became a subsidiary of the Company with effect from 1st July, 2022. Further, as per the Agreement, the balance 49% of 
the equity share capital of Maxwell will be purchased by the Company in five tranches spread over next five financial years. The 
consideration for each tranche will depend on Maxwell achieving certain financial targets as specified in the Agreement with a 
floor and cap on the total consideration payable for each tranche. (Refer note 38(i))
	
During the previous year, the Company has acquired additional 5% equity stake in Maxwell  thereby increasing its 
shareholding to 56%. The additional stake has been acquired for a cash consideration of H 69.43 million, based on the 
valuation methodology as per the terms of the agreement.
	
During the current financial year, the Company has acquired further additional 5.50% equity stake in Maxwell  thereby 
increasing its shareholding to 61.50%. The additional stake has been acquired for a cash consideration of H 0.01 million 
(7535 equity shares of Re 1 each at par), based on the valuation methodology as per the terms of the agreement.
	
	
The total investment of the Company in Maxwell Energy Systems Pvt Ltd as at 31st March, 2025 amounts to H 1,425.62 million 
[Previous year H 1,425.61 million]
176  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
26	 a)	
TP Green Nature Limited
	
During the year ended 31st March, 2025, the company had subscribed to the Right issue of TP Green Nature Ltd for 
53,81,810 equity shares of face value of H 10 each at par amounting to H 53.82 million.
	
The purpose of investment is to purchase the electricity units for plants at Chakan and Waluj for captive consumption.
	
The total investment of the Company in TP Green Nature Limited as at 31st March, 2025 amounts to H 39.62 million 
(Previous year H 22.14 million)
	
Based on the terms of the Power Delivery Agreement with TP Green Nature Limited and the Share Holders' Agreement 
with Tata Power Renewable Energy Limited, the Company has classified this investment as financial instrument measured 
at fair value through statement of profit and loss.
	
b)	
Dalavaipuram Renewables Private Limited
	
	
During the year ended 31st March, 2025, the company had purchased 10,65,641 equity shares of Dalavaipuram 
Renewables Private Limited ("Dalavaipuram") for H 10.66 million. Dalavaipuram is a special purpose vehicle incorporated 
with the main objective of setting up and operating the plant for the purpose of generating and selling energy. 
The purpose of investment is to purchase the electricity units for plants in Tamil Nadu state for captive consumption. 
The Company has classified this investment as financial instrument measured at fair value through statement of 
profit and loss.
27	 Pierer Mobility AG, Austria
	
During the financial year 2022-23, the Company had executed a Share Purchase agreement with Pierer Konzerngesellschaft 
mbH, a shareholder of PIERER Mobility AG, Austria ('PMAG'), to purchase the equity shares of PMAG, worth of EUR 4 million in 
two equal tranches in financial year 2022-23 and 2023-24. PMAG is a European manufacturer of powered two wheelers and is 
listed on the Swiss stock exchange, Zurich.  During the financial year 2022-23, the Company had invested in 31,654 equity shares 
in Pierer Mobility AG, Austria at a cost of H 162.20 million (Euro 2.0 million)  During the previous year, Company invested in 25,768 
equity shares at a cost of H 175.00 million (Euro 2.0 million).
	
The fair value of investment as on 31st March, 2025 is H 97.57 million (previous year H 241.19 million) and fair value loss for the 
year ended 31st March, 2025 is H 143.62 million (previous year loss H 156.24 million).
	
The Company has opted for irrevocable option of recognising fair value change through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) as 
this is a strategic investment. Thus, disclosing their fair value fluctuation in profit or loss will not reflect the purpose of holding.
28	 Contingent liabilities
(a)	 Contingent liabilities (To the extent not provided for)
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
i) Excise matters1
 49.88 
 50.15 
ii) Service tax matters1
 1.37 
 1.37 
iii) Income tax matters1
 433.34 
 433.34 
iv) Employees related matters1
 4.42 
 1.22 
v) Goods and Service Tax1
 34.18 
 1.47 
vi) Value Added Tax1
 4.34 
 1.16 
1  Future cash outflow, if any, in respect of these matters are determinable only on receipt of judgements / decisions pending at various stages before the 
appellate authorities.
177 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
(b)	 Commitments
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Employers contribution to provident fund/pension fund
 195.54 
 171.53 
Employers contribution to superannuation fund
 23.21 
 20.31 
Employers contribution to ESIC
 1.33 
 1.39 
Employers contribution to Labour welfare fund
 0.40 
 0.20 
Total
 220.48 
 193.43 
Note: Above contributions are included in contribution to provident fund and other funds reported in note 21 of employee 
benefits expense.
(b)	 Defined benefit plan:
	
The defined benefit plan comprises gratuity (included in contribution to provident and other funds in note 21). The present value 
of the obligation under such defined benefit plan is determined based on an actuarial valuation as at the reporting date using 
the Projected Unit Credit Method. The present value of accrued gratuity is provided in the books after reducing the fund value 
with Life Insurance Corporation of India.
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
(i) 	 Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital
     	account and not provided for (net of advances)
     	- 	
 Property, plant and equipments
 1,695.83 
 709.27 
(ii) 	Other commitment
     -  	
Subscription to the right issue of equity shares offered by TP Green Nature Limited
 - 
 53.82 
     -  	
Investment in equity shares of Dalavaipuram Renewables Private Limited
 2.08 
 - 
     -  	
Investment in equity shares of Maxwell Energy Systems Pvt Ltd [refer note 
25(c) and note 38(i)]
 75.01 
 - 
Total
 1,772.92 
 763.09 
Import of capital goods under EPCG Scheme
The Company has imported capital goods under the Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme (EPCG) of Government of India, at 
concessional rates of duty on an undertaking to fulfil quantified future export obligations. Non fulfilment of such future obligations, 
entails options/rights to the Government to confiscate the capital goods imported under the said licenses and levy other penalties 
under the above referred scheme.
Balance export obligation as on 31st March, 2025 is H 171.78 Million (previous year H 86.83 Million).
Import of inputs under Advance Authorisation (Refer note 35 (b))
The company has imported duty free inputs, which are physically incorporated in the product to be exported. Export obligation (EO) 
in the case of advance authorisation is the value of the export that needs to be compulsorily be achieved within a prescribed time 
period. As on 31st March, 2025, the company has pending duty liability of H 6.35 Million (previous year H 1.78 Million) if it fails to meet 
the export obligations. 
29 	 In conformity with the principles set out in the Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 19 Employee Benefits, details for defined 
contribution and benefit plans are given below:
(a)	 Defined contribution plan:
178  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
	
I - Reconciliation of defined benefit obligation:
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Liability at the beginning of the year
 877.15 
 758.19 
Interest cost
 60.89 
 55.56 
Current service cost
 71.75 
 62.98 
Benefits paid*
 (63.01)
 (34.79)
Remeasurement (gain) / loss
 44.67 
 35.21 
Liability at the end of the year
 991.45 
 877.15 
	
*Includes amounts directly paid by the Company.
	
II - Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets:
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
 756.26 
 574.92 
Interest income
 57.56 
 45.44 
Contributions
 73.28 
 169.90 
Benefits paid
 (23.52)
 (27.82)
Mortality Charges and Taxes
 (2.53)
 (2.63)
Return on plan assets - gain / (loss) 
 0.89 
 (3.55)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 861.94 
 756.26 
Actual return on plan assets 
 58.45 
 41.89 
	
III - Amount to be recognized in the Balance Sheet
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Liability at the end of the year
 991.45 
 877.15 
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 861.94 
 756.26 
Amount to be recognized in Balance Sheet - Net liability
 129.51 
 120.89 
	
IV - Expenses recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss under the head employee benefits expense
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Current service cost
 71.75 
 62.98 
Interest cost
 3.33 
 10.11 
Expenses recognized in Statement of Profit and Loss
 75.08 
 73.09 
	
In respect of funded benefits with respect to gratuity, the fair value of plan assets represents the amounts invested through 
“Insurer Managed Funds”
	
V - Remeasurement for the year
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Experience (gain)/ loss on plan liabilities
 18.27 
 20.68 
Financial (gain)/ loss on plan liabilities 
 26.41 
 14.53 
Experience (gain)/ loss on plan assets
 (3.31)
 6.58 
Financial (gain)/ loss on plan assets
 2.40 
 (3.03)
179 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
	
VI - Amount recognized in statement of other comprehensive income (OCI)
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Opening amount recognized in OCI 
 171.22 
 132.46 
Remeasurement for the year - obligation (gain)/ loss
 44.67 
 35.21 
Remeasurement for the year - plan assets (gain)/ loss
 (0.89)
 3.55 
Total remeasurement cost / (credit) for the year recognized in OCI 
 43.78 
 38.76 
Closing amount recognized in OCI 
 215.00 
 171.22 
	
VII - Principal actuarial assumptions:
 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Discount rate (i)
6.70%
7.20%
Expected rate of return on plan assets
7.20%
7.50%
Salary escalation rate (ii)
7.00%
7.00%
Withdrawal rate (iii)
8.00%
8.00%
	
(i)	
The discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian Government securities as at the balance sheet date for 
the estimated terms of the obligations.
	
(ii)	
Salary escalation rate is the estimates of future salary increases considered taking into the account the inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors.
	
(iii)	
Withdrawal rate is employee’s turnover rate based on the Company’s past and expected employee turnover.
	
(iv)	
Disclosure related to indication of effect of the defined benefit plan on the entity’s future cash flows:
	
Expected benefit payments for year ending, assessed on 31st March, 2025
 H in million
Year ending
Amount
31st March, 2026
 229.53 
31st March, 2027
 183.45 
31st March, 2028
 88.49 
31st March, 2029
 86.08 
31st March, 2030
 105.05 
31st March, 2031 to 31st March, 2035
 619.90 
	
Expected benefit payments for year ending, assessed on 31st March, 2024
 H in million
Year ending
Amount
31st March, 2025
 196.75 
31st March, 2026
 90.83 
31st March, 2027
 171.14 
31st March, 2028
 83.71 
31st March, 2029
 82.89 
31st March, 2030 to 31st March, 2034
 554.90 
	
(v)	
Weighted Average duration of defined benefit obligation: 9.76 years (Previous year 9.61 years)	
180  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
	
(vi)	
Sensitivity analysis:
	
	
Sensitivity analysis indicates the influence of a reasonable change in principal assumptions, while keeping other things 
constant, on the outcome of the present value of Defined Benefit Obligation. In reality, the plan is subject to multiple 
external experience items which may move the Defined Benefit Obligation in similar or opposite directions, while the Plan’s 
sensitivity to such changes can vary over time.
	
	
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024 is as shown below:
H in million
A. Effect of 1 % change in the assumed 
discount rate
1% Increase
1% Decrease
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
Defined Benefit Obligation
 940.06 
 830.53 
 1,048.94 
 929.27 
B. Effect of 1 % change in the assumed 
salary escalation rate
1% Increase
1% Decrease
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
Defined Benefit Obligation
 1,039.75 
 921.17 
 947.33 
 836.93 
C. Effect of 1 % change in the assumed 
withdrawal rate
1% Increase
1% Decrease
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
Defined Benefit Obligation
 990.43 
 877.40 
 992.57 
 876.86 
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
a)  	Principal amount remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end of the 
accounting year 
 1,012.74 
 734.98 
b)  	Interest due on above remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end of the 
accounting year 
 - 
 - 
c)  	The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the MSMED 
Act 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond 
the appointed day during each accounting year
 - 
 - 
d)  	The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which has been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) 
but without adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act 2006.
 - 
 - 
e) 	 The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each 
accounting year
 - 
 - 
f) 	 The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the 
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually 
paid to the small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible 
expenditure under section 23 of the MSMED Act 2006.
 - 
 - 
The information is required to be disclosed under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006 has been 
determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of information available with the Company
30	 Disclosures required under Section 22 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
181 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
a) 	 Earnings for the purpose of basic / diluted earnings per share -
    	 Net profit after tax  (H in million)
 6,786.59 
 5,877.93 
    	 Earnings attributable to equity share holders (H in million)
 6,786.59 
 5,877.93 
b) 	 Weighted number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share 
(in nos.)
 14,06,62,848 
 14,06,62,848 
c) 	 Weighted number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per 
share (in nos.)
 14,06,62,848 
 14,06,62,848 
d) 	 Nominal value of equity shares (H each)
 10.00 
 10.00 
e) 	 Basic and diluted earnings per share (H each)
 48.25 
 41.79 
31	 Earnings per share (EPS)
 H in million
Particulars
Carrying amount
Fair value 
As at 
31st March,2025 
As at 
31st March,2024
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
(a) 	Security Deposits
 132.74 
 111.52 
 132.74 
 111.52 
(b) 	Trade receivable
 11,322.49 
 10,684.35 
 11,322.49 
 10,684.35 
(c) 	Loans to subsidiary
 137.00 
 100.00 
 137.00 
 100.00 
(d) 	Loans to employees
 33.63 
 19.95 
 33.63 
 19.95 
(e) 	Interest accrued on deposits
 - 
 0.03 
 - 
 0.03 
(f) 	 Cash in hand
 0.14 
 0.79 
 0.14 
 0.79 
(g) 	Balance with banks in current account 
 921.78 
 156.51 
 921.78 
 156.51 
(h) 	 Balance held as Margin money against borrowings
 0.01 
 0.12 
 0.01 
 0.12 
(i) 	 Receivable for sale of Property, plant and equipment
 37.39 
 34.13 
 37.39 
 34.13 
(j) 	 Government incentives receivable
 1,883.76 
 1,604.65 
 1,883.76 
 1,604.65 
(k) 	Other financial assets
 26.39 
 26.92 
 26.39 
 26.92 
(l) 	 Other non current investments
 0.04 
 0.04 
 0.04 
 0.04 
Financial assets measured at fair value through 
Statement of Profit and Loss 
(a) 	Current investments
 5,183.65 
 4,022.22 
 5,183.65 
 4,022.22 
(b) 	Non current investments quoted
 0.10 
 0.14 
 0.10 
 0.14 
(c) 	Foreign currency derivative assets
 0.39 
 1.25 
 0.39 
 1.25 
(d) 	Other non current investments
 47.32 
 22.14 
 47.32 
 22.14 
Financial assets measured at fair value through 
Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) 
(a) 	Non current investments quoted
 97.57 
 241.19 
 97.57 
 241.19 
(b) 	Other non current investments
 11.45 
 11.45 
 11.45 
 11.45 
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
(a) 	Non current lease liabilities
 194.42 
 58.96 
 194.42 
 58.96 
(b) 	Security deposits received from dealers
 91.79 
 104.29 
 91.79 
 104.29 
(c) 	Retention money
 41.48 
 24.69 
 41.48 
 24.69 
(d) 	Current lease liabilities
 51.87 
 21.26 
 51.87 
 21.26 
(e) 	 Payables on purchase of Property plant & equipment 
 590.01 
 490.62 
 590.01 
 490.62 
(f) 	 Trade payable
 8,150.12 
 6,762.07 
 8,150.12 
 6,762.07 
(g) 	Unpaid equity dividend
 0.44 
 0.42 
 0.44 
 0.42 
(h) 	Deferred payable for technical knowhow
 - 
 62.02 
 - 
 62.02 
Financial liabilities measured at fair value 
through Statement of Profit and Loss 
(a) 	Foreign currency derivative liabilities
 9.31 
 22.46 
 9.31 
 22.46 
32	 Fair Value Measurements 
Set out below is the comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Company's financials instruments
182  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
The management assessed that the fair values of short term financial assets and liabilities significantly approximate their carrying 
amounts largely due to the short - term maturities of these instruments. The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is the amount 
at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction among willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The Company determines fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities by discounting the contractual cash inflows/outflows 
using prevailing interest rates of financials instruments with similar terms. The initial measurement of financial assets and financial 
liabilities is at fair value. The fair value of investment is determined using quoted net assets value from the fund/share market prices. 
Further, the subsequent measurement of all financial assets and liabilities (other than investment in mutual funds, equity shares and 
foreign currency derivatives) is at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
Discount rates used in determining fair value
The interest rate used to discount estimated future cash flows, where applicable, are based on the incremental borrowing rate of the 
borrower which in case of financial liabilities is the weighted average cost of borrowing of the Company and in case of financial assets 
is the average market rate of similar credit rated instrument.
The Company maintains policies and procedures to value financial assets or financial liabilities using the best and most relevant data 
available. In addition, the Company internally reviews valuation, including independent price validation for certain instruments.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an 
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or 
estimated using another valuation technique.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate fair value:
(a) 	 Fair value of short term financial assets and liabilities significantly approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short 
term maturities of these instruments.
(b)	
Fair value of quoted mutual funds is based on the net assets value at the reporting date. The fair value of other financial liabilities 
as well as other non current financial liabilities is estimated by discounting future cash flow using rate currently applicable for 
debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
(c) 	
The fair value of the Company’s interest bearing borrowing received are determined using discount rate that reflects the entity's 
borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The own non performance risk as at the end of reporting period was 
assessed to be insignificant.
Fair value hierarchy
All financial instruments for which fair value is recognized or disclosed are categorized within the fair value hierarchy described as 
follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) price is active market for identical assets or liabilities
Level 2: This level of hierarchy includes financial assets, measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that 
are observable for the asset, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices)
Level 3: Valuation technique for which the lowest level input has a significant effect on the fair value measurement is not based on 
observable market data
The following table presents our assets and liabilities measured at fair value on recurring basis at 31st March, 2025 and at 
31st March, 2024.
 H in million 
Particulars
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
31st March, 2025
Investment in mutual funds
 5,183.65 
 - 
 - 
Investment in equity Instruments
 97.67 
 - 
 - 
Other non current investments
 - 
 - 
 58.77 
Foreign currency derivative assets
 0.39 
 - 
 - 
Foreign currency derivative liabilities
 9.31 
 - 
 - 
183 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
33	 Financial Instruments and Risk Review
I. 	
Capital Management
	
The Company’s capital management objectives are:
	
The Board policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain 
future development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital employed on a quarterly basis.
	
The Company manages capital risk by maintaining sound/optimal capital structure through monitoring of financial ratios, such 
as debt-to-equity ratio and net borrowings-to-equity ratio on a quarterly basis and implements capital structure improvement 
plan when necessary.
	
The Company uses net debt to equity ratio as a capital management index and calculates the ratio as net debt divided by total 
equity. Net debt and total equity are based on the amounts stated in the standalone financial statements.
	
Debt-to-equity ratio is as follows:
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Net Debt (A) 1
 (5,858.84)
 (4,098.88)
Equity (B)
 43,480.09 
 38,053.20 
Debt Ratio (A / B)
 -0.1 
 -0.1 
	
1 Net debt includes borrowings and right-of-use lease obligation, net off current investments and cash and cash equivalents.
II. 	 Financial Risk Management Framework
	
The Company is exposed primarily to market risk (fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate), credit risk, 
liquidity risk, which may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments. The Company assesses the unpredictability 
of the financial environment and seeks to mitigate potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Company.
	
i) 	
Credit Risk
	
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay or service debt according to contractual 
terms. Credit risk encompasses, the risk of default, the risk of deterioration of creditworthiness of the counterparty as well 
as concentration of risks. 
	
	
Financial instruments that are subject to exposure to credit risk consist of trade receivables, investments and other 
financial assets.	
	
	
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, 
leading to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from operating activities, primarily from trade receivables. 
	
	
Trade receivables
	
	
Trade receivables consist of receivables arising primarily due to sale of goods.  These receivables are unsecured and 
mature at the end of a specified credit period depending upon the terms of contract of each customer, which ranges from 
30-60 days for customers in India and 30-120 days for overseas customers.  The Company’s customers primarily consist of 
Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEM”) for its primary products and Dealers for spare parts. 
 H in million 
Particulars
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
31st March, 2024
Investment in mutual funds
 4,022.22 
 - 
 - 
Investment in equity Instruments
 241.33 
 - 
 - 
Other non current investments
 - 
 - 
 33.59 
Foreign currency derivative assets
 1.25 
 - 
 - 
Foreign currency derivative liabilities
 22.46 
 - 
 - 
During the year ended 31st March, 2025 and year ended 31st March, 2024, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair 
value measurement.
184  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
	
	
Ageing of trade receivable is as given below:
 
 H in million 
Particulars
Not due
Within 365 
days*
More than 365 
days*
Total
31st March, 2025
Estimated total gross carrying amount
 9,859.11 
 1,511.16 
 19.56 
 11,389.83 
ECL - Simplified approach
 - 
 (53.04)
 (14.30)
 (67.34)
Net carrying amount
 9,859.11 
 1,458.12 
 5.26 
 11,322.49 
 
 H in million 
Particulars
Not due
Within 365 
days*
More than 365 
days*
Total
31st March, 2024
Estimated total gross carrying amount
 6,759.51 
 3,922.09 
 4.02 
 10,685.62 
ECL - Simplified approach
 - 
 - 
 (1.27)
 (1.27)
Net carrying amount
 6,759.51 
 3,922.09 
 2.75 
 10,684.35 
	
	
* Provision is made for receivables where recovery is considered doubtful irrespective of due date. Where an amount is outstanding for more than 
365 days the Company usually provides for the same unless there is clear visibility of recovery.
	
	
The Movement in the expected credit loss allowance is as given below:
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1.27 
 1.27 
Movement in the expected credit loss allowance on trade receivables 
during the year
 66.07 
 - 
Balance at the end of the year
 67.34 
 1.27 
	
	
Company’s exposure to customers is diversified and some customers contribute more than 10% of outstanding accounts 
receivable which forms 57.82% of total receivables as of 31st March, 2025 (62.11% as at Previous year), however there was 
no default on account of those customers in the past.
	
	
The Company considers the trade receivables to have low risk of defaults since the customers have strong capacity to fulfil 
their obligations and even if there are adverse changes in economic and business conditions, the Company is of the view 
that it will not adversely affect the ability of the customers to fulfil their obligations.The Company considers write-off of 
receivables on case to case basis, depending upon the circumstances of each delayed receivable, and when the Company 
is of the view that recovery seems unlikely after reasonable efforts. 
	
	
The Company assesses the credit risk of its customers and dealers at the time of acceptance of the customer as well as 
on an ongoing basis. Before accepting any new customer, the Company uses an external/internal credit scoring system 
to assess the potential customer’s credit quality and defines credit limits by customer. The credit limit of these customers 
and dealers is continuously monitored and recalibrated based on the credit risk assessment.  Most of the OEM’s have high 
credit ratings which helps the Company mitigate credit risk.
	
	
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether a trade receivable or a group of trade receivables is impaired.  The 
Company recognizes lifetime expected credit losses for all trade receivables that do not constitute a financing transaction 
and which are due for more than six months.  The expected credit losses are measured at an amount equal to 12 month 
expected credit losses or at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses if the credit risk on the financial asset 
has increased significantly since initial recognition. The Company uses a practical expedient by computing the expected 
credit loss allowance for trade receivables based on a provision matrix.
185 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
	
	
The maturity profile of various financial assets is as given below:
 H in million 
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Less than 1 Year
1-5 Years
Less than 1 Year
1-5 Years
Non-derivative financial assets
Trade receivables
 11,322.49 
 - 
 10,684.35 
 - 
Loans
 - 
 137.00 
 - 
 100.00 
Total
 11,322.49 
 137.00 
 10,684.35 
 100.00 
	
	
Investments and other financial assets
	
	
Investments consist mainly of investments in equity of subsidiaries and other companies, investments in mutual funds and 
fixed deposits.  Other financial assets consist of Government incentive receivables, export incentive receivables, receivable 
for sale of property, plant and equipments and security deposits for business purposes
	
	
Investments in mutual funds are primarily those instruments which have been approved by the Board and are in low-risk 
category and are continuously monitored by the investment committee of the Board.  The Company considers credit risk 
in investments as well as in other financial assets to be very low.	
	
ii) 	
Liquidity Risk
	
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company may not be in a position to meet its financial liabilities.  The objective of liquidity 
risk management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and to ensure availability of adequate funds for business.  The Company 
generates sufficient internal accruals and generally the purpose of borrowings is to meet temporary fund flow mismatches 
and sometimes to meet regular capital expenditures.  The Company maintains a very low debt to equity ratio. 
	
	
The maturity profile of various financial liabilities is as given below. These amounts have been drawn up based on 
the undiscounted cash flows of various financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Company can be 
required to pay. 
 H in million 
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Less than 1 Year
1-5 Years
Less than 1 Year
1-5 Years
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
 8,150.12 
 - 
 6,762.07 
 - 
Other financial liabilities 
 599.76 
 133.27 
 575.52 
 128.98 
Lease liabilities
 51.87 
 194.42 
 21.26 
 58.96 
Total
 8,801.75 
 327.69 
 7,358.85 
 187.94 
	
iii) 	 Market risk
	
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes 
in market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk like 
commodity prices risk.
	
	
1) 	
Interest rate risk
	
	
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market interest rates. The Company has no borrowings during the year and previous year, and hence 
there is no interest rate risk.  The Company also maintain deposits of cash and cash equivalents with banks  which are 
subject to periodic resets.
	
	
2) 	
Foreign Currency exchange rate risk
	
	
	
Foreign currency  exchange rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will 
fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.  At a standalone level the Company is exposed to currency 
risk of changes in EURO, USD, CHF, CNY, GBP, SGD and JPY.  However, the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates 
on the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income is not material.  The Company has an exposure to 
changes in foreign exchange (primarily EURO) on account of its investments in its subsidiaries.
186  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
	
Details of Forward Exchange Contract
Particulars
Currency
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Foreign Currency 
Notional Amount 
(in million)
Rupees 
(in million)
Foreign Currency 
Notional Amount 
(in million)
Rupees 
(in million)
Forward contract - USD-INR
USD
 5.48 
 468.05 
 3.81 
 318.10 
	
	
	
	
No. of Contracts
 33 
 23 
Forward contract -  JPY -INR
JPY
 196.42 
 111.92 
 11.68 
 6.43 
	
	
	
	
No. of Contracts
 4 
 1 
Forward contract -  EUR - INR
EURO
 0.41 
 37.93 
 2.36 
 212.33 
	
	
	
	
No. of Contracts
 4 
 16 	
	
Fixed currency swap CNY-INR
CNY
 1.28 
 15.07 
 0.26 
 2.99 
	
	
	
	
No. of Contracts
 5 
 1 
(b)	 Foreign currency exposures that are not hedged by derivative instruments	
	
	
	
Particulars
Currency
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Foreign Currency 
Notional Amount 
Rupees 
(in million)
Foreign Currency 
Notional Amount 
Rupees 
(in million)
I. 	 Trade receivables :
USD
 0.59 
 50.84 
 1.21 
 100.70 
EURO
 1.17 
 108.53 
 2.96 
 265.99 
 159.37 
 366.69 
II. 	 Trade payable and capital 
creditors:
USD
 (0.88)
 (75.59)
 (0.37)
 (30.92)
EURO
 (0.09)
 (8.62)
 (0.28)
 (25.35)
GBP
 (0.02)
 (1.72)
 (0.01)
 (0.75)
CNY
 (1.96)
 (23.04)
 (0.06)
 (0.69)
JPY
 (0.25)
 (0.14)
 - 
 - 
 (109.11)
 (57.70)
Total
USD
 (0.29)
 (24.75)
 0.84 
 69.78 
EURO
 1.08 
 99.91 
 2.68 
 240.65 
GBP
 (0.02)
 (1.72)
 (0.01)
 (0.75)
CNY
 (1.96)
 (23.04)
 (0.06)
 (0.69)
JPY
 (0.25)
 (0.14)
 - 
 - 
	
	
	
Wherever, transactions are undertaken in foreign currency, the Company hedges the risk of foreign exchange 
fluctuation by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk management policies.  The investment in 
subsidiaries being long term in nature is unhedged.  The information on derivative instruments and the unhedged 
foreign currency exposures are as follows:
(a)	 Derivative financial instruments
	
The Company uses derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge its foreign currency 
risks. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is 
entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is 
positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
	
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken directly to profit or loss. The foreign exchange 
forward contracts are not designated as cash flow hedges and are entered into for periods consistent with foreign currency 
exposure of the underlying transactions, generally from 1 to 48 months. 
187 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
	
Foreign currency sensitivity
	
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD, EURO, GBP, JPY and CNY  exchange 
rates, with all other variables held constant. The impact on the Company’s profit before tax due to changes in the fair value of 
monetary assets and liabilities. The Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
 H in million
For the year ended
Currency
Change in rate
Effect on profit 
before tax
31st March, 2025
USD
+10%
 (2.48)
USD
-10%
 2.48 
EUR
+10%
 9.99 
EUR
-10%
 (9.99)
JPY
+10%
 (0.01)
JPY
-10%
 0.01 
CNY
+10%
 (2.30)
CNY
-10%
 2.30 
31st March, 2024
USD
+10%
 6.98 
USD
-10%
 (6.98)
EUR
+10%
 24.06 
EUR
-10%
 (24.06)
GBP
+10%
 (0.08)
GBP
-10%
 0.08 
CNY
+10%
 (0.07)
CNY
-10%
 0.07 
	
vi) 	 Commodity Price risk
	
	
The Company is exposed to risks in fluctuation of prices of certain raw materials, which are used as key inputs in the production 
process, especially ferrous and non-ferrous metals.  Historically, as a practice, and as per our understanding with customers, 
the Company has passed on an increase in the cost of metals, especially aluminium and steel to its customers and does not 
foresee a significant risk to its statement of profit and loss on account of fluctuations in the material prices.	
Related Party Disclosure
(For the year ended 31st March, 2025)
Note 34 - Key Management Personnel (KMP) has been identified as per Ind-AS 24
a) 	 List of Related Parties and nature of relationships
S.No
Description of Relationship
Name of Related Party/Persons
1
Holding Company
 None  
2
Subsidiaries Direct / Indirect
 Endurance GmbH, Germany (Direct Subsidiary) 
 Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy (Direct Subsidiary) (Refer Note 1 below) 
 Endurance SpA, Italy (Indirect Subsidiary) 
 Endurance Engineering Srl, Italy (Indirect Subsidiary) 
 Endurance Castings SpA, Italy (Indirect Subsidiary) 
 Endurance Two Wheelers SpA (Indirect Subsidiary) (Refer Note 2 below) 
 Veicoli Srl, Italy (Indirect Subsidiary) 
 GDS Sarl, Tunisia (Indirect Subsidiary) (Refer Note 3 below) 
 Ingenia Automation Srl, Italy (Indirect Subsidiary) 
 Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited, India (Direct Subsidiary)(Refer note 38) 
3
Fellow Subsidiaries
 None  
4
Associates
 None  
188  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
S.No
Description of Relationship
Name of Related Party/Persons
5
Key Management Personnel 
 Mr. Soumendra Basu, Chairman 
 Mr. Anurang Jain, Managing Director 
 Mrs. Varsha Jain, Director and Head – CSR and Facility Management 
 Mr. Ramesh Gehaney, Director and COO (upto 5th June, 2024) 
 Mr. Rajendra Abhange, Director and COO (w.e.f. 6th June, 2024) 
 Mr. Massimo Venuti, Non-executive Director 
 Mr. Satrajit Ray, Director and Group CFO (upto 5th June, 2024), Non-executive 
Director (w.e.f. 6th June, 2024)  
 Ms. Anjali Seth, Independent Director 
 Mr. Indrajit Banerjee, Independent Director 
 Mr. Anant Talaulicar, Independent Director 
 Mr. Roberto Testore, Independent Director (upto 31st August, 2024) 
 Mr. Alfredo Altavilla, Independent Director (w.e.f. 1st September, 2024) 
 Mr. R.S. Raja Gopal Sastry, Group CFO (w.e.f. 6th June, 2024) 
6
Relatives of Key Management 
Personnel with whom transactions 
have taken place
Mr. Naresh Chandra (family trustee of Anurang Rhea Trust) - Father of Mr. 
Anurang Jain 
Mrs. Suman Nareshchandra Jain (family trustee of NC Trust) - Mother of Mr. 
Anurang Jain 
Mrs. Rhea Jain Kapoor - Daughter of Mr. Anurang Jain 
Mr. Rohan Jain - Son of Mr. Anurang Jain 
Notes:
1)	
Endurance Overseas Srl has converted its status from ‘limited liability’ company to ‘public limited’ company. Accordingly, w.e.f. 
20th January, 2025, its name has been changed, to that extent, to Endurance Overseas SpA.
2)	
With effect from 1st January, 2025, Frenotecnica Srl, Italy and New Fren Srl, Italy, were merged into Endurance Adler SpA, Italy. 
Post merger, name of Endurance Adler SpA changed to Endurance Two Wheelers SpA, from the effective date.
3)	
The shareholders of GDS Sarl, Tunisia have passed a resolution on 23rd September, 2024 for its voluntary liquidation and that the 
same is under process.
b)	
Transactions carried out with the related parties in ordinary course of business (Previous year figures are in brackets)
 H in million
Nature of Transactions
 Subsidiaries 
 Key 
Management 
Personnel 
 Relatives of Key 
Management 
personnel 
 Total 
Purchase of raw material and components
              16.15 
                     - 
                     - 
        16.15 
              (9.82)
                     - 
                     - 
         (9.82)
Purchase of Property, plant & equipment
                7.32 
                     - 
                     - 
          7.32 
            (14.28)
                     - 
                     - 
       (14.28)
Purchase of Technical-Know How
            118.43 
                     - 
                     - 
      118.43 
          (118.26)
                     - 
                     - 
     (118.26)
Sale of products
            619.31 
                     - 
                     - 
      619.31 
            (90.16)
                     - 
                     - 
       (90.16)
Sale of services
                7.07 
                     - 
                     - 
          7.07 
              (2.39)
                     - 
                     - 
         (2.39)
Remuneration* - Short Term Employee Benefits
                    - 
             190.85 
               17.37 
      208.22 
                    - 
           (151.01)
              (13.76)
     (164.77)
Directors' Sitting Fees
                    - 
                 4.26 
                     - 
          4.26 
                    - 
               (3.30)
                     - 
         (3.30)
Directors' Commission
                    - 
               19.90 
                     - 
        19.90 
                    - 
             (13.05)
                     - 
       (13.05)
189 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
* Post employment benefits payable in the form of gratuity and other long term benefits in the form of compensated absences are calculated on the basis of 
actuarial valuation. Amount payable for individual employees as at 31st March, 2025 (31st March, 2024) cannot be separately identified and therefore has not been 
included in above. There are no termination benefits, share based payments given to Key Management Personnel and their relatives.
^ Includes H 240.55 million (H 198.10 million) dividend received by Mr. Anurang Jain in his capacity as family trustee of Anurang Rohan Trust.
# Includes H 143.74 million (H 118.37 million) dividend received by Mr. Naresh Chandra in his capacity as family trustee of Anurang Rhea Trust.
# Includes H 143.57 million (H 118.23 million) dividend received by Mrs. Suman Jain in her capacity as family trustee of NC Trust.
c)	
Disclosure in respect of material transactions with related parties (Previous year figures are in brackets)
 H in million
Nature of Transactions
 Subsidiaries 
 Key 
Management 
Personnel 
 Relatives of Key 
Management 
personnel 
 Total 
Reimbursement of Travelling & Other Expenses
                1.49 
                 3.18 
                 1.69 
          6.36 
              (0.47)
               (4.57)
                (2.62)
         (7.66)
Dividend paid
                    - 
^ 609.42 
             #287.30 
      896.73 
                    - 
           (501.88)
            (236.60)
     (738.48)
Rent received
                5.63 
                     - 
                     - 
          5.63 
              (5.48)
                     - 
                     - 
         (5.48)
Expenses recovered
              12.56 
                     - 
                     - 
        12.56 
              (7.96)
                     - 
                     - 
         (7.96)
Interest income
              16.33 
                     - 
                     - 
        16.33 
              (5.50)
                     - 
                     - 
         (5.50)
Finance
Loan to subsidiary
              37.00 
                     - 
                     - 
        37.00 
          (100.00)
                     - 
                     - 
     (100.00)
Balances Outstanding as at 31st March, 2025
i) 	 Other Payables
                    - 
                 0.08 
                     - 
          0.08 
As at 31st March, 2024
            (25.20)
             (13.78)
                (0.27)
       (39.25)
ii) 	 Travel advance
                    - 
                 2.35 
                 0.88 
          3.23 
As at 31st March, 2024
                    - 
                     - 
                     - 
              - 
iii) 	 Trade Payables
                    - 
                     - 
                     - 
              - 
As at 31st March, 2024
              (9.47)
                     - 
                     - 
         (9.47)
iv) 	 Receivables
            244.95 
                     - 
                     - 
      244.95 
As at 31st March, 2024
            (56.35)
                     - 
                     - 
       (56.35)
v) 	 Investments
         4,352.62 
                     - 
                     - 
   4,352.62 
As at 31st March, 2024
       (4,352.62)
                     - 
                     - 
  (4,352.62)
vi) 	 Loan to subsidiary
            137.00 
                     - 
                     - 
      137.00 
As at 31st March, 2024
          (100.00)
                     - 
                     - 
     (100.00)
H in million
 Particulars 
 Maxwell Energy 
Systems Private 
Limited 
 
Endurance 
GmbH, 
Germany 
 Endurance 
Overseas SpA, 
Italy 
 Endurance 
Two Wheelers 
SpA, Italy 
 Total 
Purchase of raw material and components
                   12.07 
              - 
                     - 
                 4.08 
               16.15 
                   (7.60)
              - 
                     - 
                (2.22)
                (9.82)
Purchase of Property, plant & equipment
                     7.32 
              - 
                     - 
                    - 
                 7.32 
                 (14.28)
              - 
                     - 
                    - 
              (14.28)
Purchase of Technical-Know How
                        - 
              - 
              118.43 
                    - 
             118.43 
                        - 
              - 
             (118.26)
                    - 
            (118.26)
Sale of products
                 562.68 
              - 
                     - 
               56.63 
             619.31 
                 (26.25)
              - 
                     - 
              (63.91)
              (90.16)
Sale of services
                     0.40 
              - 
                     - 
                 6.67 
                 7.07 
                        - 
              - 
                     - 
                (2.39)
                (2.39)
Rent received
                     5.63 
              - 
                     - 
                    - 
                 5.63 
                   (5.48)
              - 
                     - 
                    - 
                (5.48)
190  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
H in million
 Particulars 
 Maxwell Energy 
Systems Private 
Limited 
 
Endurance 
GmbH, 
Germany 
 Endurance 
Overseas SpA, 
Italy 
 Endurance 
Two Wheelers 
SpA, Italy 
 Total 
Expenses recovered
                   12.56 
              - 
                     - 
                    - 
               12.56 
                   (7.96)
              - 
                     - 
                    - 
                (7.96)
Reimbursement of Travelling & Other 
Expenses
                        - 
              - 
                     - 
                 1.49 
                 1.49 
                   (0.30)
              - 
                     - 
                (0.17)
                (0.47)
Interest income
                   16.23 
              - 
                     - 
                 0.10 
               16.33 
                   (4.17)
              - 
                     - 
                (1.33)
                (5.50)
Finance
Loan to subsidiary
                   37.00 
              - 
                     - 
                    - 
               37.00 
                (100.00)
              - 
                     - 
                    - 
            (100.00)
Balances Outstanding as at 31st March, 2025
i ) 	 Other Payables
                        - 
              - 
                     - 
                    - 
                    - 
As at 31st March, 2024
                       - 
             - 
              (25.20)
                    - 
             (25.20)
ii ) 	Trade Payables
                        - 
              - 
                     - 
                    - 
                    - 
As at 31st March, 2024
                   (8.73)
             - 
                    - 
               (0.74)
                (9.47)
iii ) 	Receivables
                 230.84 
              - 
                     - 
               14.11 
             244.95 
As at 31st March, 2024
                 (40.04)
             - 
                    - 
             (16.31)
             (56.35)
iv) 	 Investments
                 715.01 
    1,930.62 
           1,706.99 
                    - 
           4,352.62 
As at 31st March, 2024
               (715.01)
  (1,930.62)
         (1,706.99)
                    - 
         (4,352.62)
v) 	 Loan to subsidiary
                 137.00 
              - 
                     - 
                    - 
             137.00 
As at 31st March, 2024
               (100.00)
             - 
                    - 
                    - 
            (100.00)
1)	
Details of loan given to related party
 H in million 
Name of the borrower
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Total Amount
Outstanding
 % of total 
 loan given 
Total Amount
Outstanding
 % of total 
 loan given 
Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited
 137.00 
100%
 100.00 
100%
 H in million 
Particulars
As on
Interest rate
Nature
 Total amount 
Outstanding 
Rate of interest - MCLR + 2% 
 31st March 2025 
11.00%
 Loan 
 137.00 
 31st March 2024 
10.65%
 Loan 
 100.00 
2)	
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. 
Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and interest free (excluding loan given to Maxwell Energy Systems Private 
Limited) and settlement occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables 
or payables. For the year ended 31st March, 2025, the Company has not recorded any impairment of receivables relating to 
amounts owed by related parties (31st March 2024: H Nil million). This assessment is undertaken each financial year through 
examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
191 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
35	 Government incentives:
(a)	 Industrial Promotion Subsidy:	
	
The Company recognises grant income under the Package Scheme of Incentives, Government of Maharashtra (“PSI Scheme”) 
on sale of goods, as management believes that the realisation of the grant income is reasonably certain.
	
Incentive under Mega Project Scheme - PSI 2019 (Refer note 18.01)
	
The Company has recognized an amount of H 381.28 million (previous year Nil ) as grant income under Mega Project scheme PSI 
2019 for the year ended 31st March, 2025.
	
Incentive under Mega Project Scheme - PSI 2013 (Refer note 18.01)
	
The Company has recognized an amount of H 358.77 million (previous year H 785.56 million) as grant income under Mega Project 
scheme PSI 2013 for the year ended 31st March, 2025.
	
The Company has also recognized H 1.84 million (previous year H 6.79 million) against balance related to PSI 2007 scheme. 
	
The total grant income recognized during the year is H 741.89 million (previous year is H 792.35 million)
(b)	 Export Incentive [Refer note 18.01 and note 28(b)]
	
The Company has recognized H 16.09 million (previous year H 19.30 million) as export incentive under RODTEP scheme for the 
year ended on 31st March, 2025.
	
During the year, the Company also recognized H 29.76 million (previous year H 29.82 million) as export incentive under duty 
drawback scheme.
	
Further the Company also recognized H Nil (previous year H 1.26 million) as incentive under advance authorisation licence scheme.
36	 The capital and revenue expenditure incurred by the in-house R&D Units (hereinafter referred as "R&D Centre") are as under:
i)	
Capital expenditure (Including CWIP)
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Test Track
4.55
 0.44 
Embedded Electronics
0.00
 5.68 
Driveshaft
9.07
 1.44 
E-93
34.51
 12.62 
B-1/3
13.12
 11.25 
K-226/2
54.64
 10.37 
K-226/1
28.45
 15.40 
Total
144.34
57.20
ii)	
Revenue expenditure
 H in million
Particulars
Salaries /wages
Materials/ 
consumables/ 
spares /tools
Utilities
Any other 
expenditure directly 
relating to R & D
For the year ended 31st March, 2025
Test Track
 2.20 
 0.60 
 0.87 
 15.10 
Embedded Electronics
 11.47 
 0.05 
 2.94 
 6.14 
Driveshaft
 6.71 
 3.43 
 1.84 
 16.75 
E-93
 99.58 
 15.84 
 11.16 
 41.02 
B-1/3
 55.61 
 1.84 
 2.38 
 25.87 
K-226/2
 92.19 
 125.15 
 12.12 
 84.18 
K-226/1
 45.95 
 9.87 
 4.00 
 22.76 
Total
 313.71 
 156.78 
 35.31 
 211.82 
192  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
 H in million
Particulars
Salaries /wages
Materials/ 
consumables/ 
spares /tools
Utilities
Any other 
expenditure directly 
relating to R & D
For the year ended 31st March, 2024
Test Track
 1.90 
 0.11 
 0.72 
 28.21 
Embedded Electronics
 6.69 
 0.09 
 4.17 
 6.97 
Driveshaft
 15.52 
 3.02 
 1.36 
 10.00 
E-93
 97.56 
 13.16 
 8.92 
 34.80 
B-1/3
 45.71 
 1.03 
 2.42 
 23.83 
K-226/2
 65.72 
 121.96 
 12.51 
 71.06 
K-226/1
 38.09 
 7.41 
 2.83 
 14.81 
Total
271.19 
146.78 
 32.93 
 189.68 
	
All the in-house R&D units except Test Track have been recognized by Department of Scientific and Industrial Research.
37	 Corporate social responsibility (CSR)
i)	
Pursuant to Companies Act, 2013 gross amount required to be spent by the Company towards CSR during current financial year 
and that approved by the board is H 125.00 million (previous year H 109.48 million).
ii)	
The Company has contributed during the year ended 31st March, 2025 H 125.00 million (previous year ended 31st March, 2024 
H 110.10 million) to Sevak Trust and salary of CSR staff H 6.74 million (previous year H 3.51 million). 
 H in million 
Nature of expenditure
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Sevak Trust has implemented following projects:
i) 	 Construction/acquisition of any asset
 32.85 
 34.00 
ii) 	 On the purpose other than (i) above
	
Village Development Project (VDP)
 57.75 
 49.51 
	
Vocational Training Centre (VTC)
 22.92 
 25.80 
	
Impact assessment of CSR project
 0.37 
 0.63 
	
Balwadi, Kagzipura Museum and others
 11.11 
 0.16 
Total paid to Sevak Trust
 125.00 
 110.10 
Salary of CSR staff (included in Employee benefits expense)
 6.74 
 3.51 
Total
 131.74 
 113.61 
iii)	
Below is the summary for the actual CSR spending by the company :
 H in million
Financial Year
Opening balance 
of excess amount 
spent / (shortfall 
in amount spent )
Amount 
required to be 
spent during the 
year 
Amount spent 
during the year
Closing balance 
of excess amount 
spent / (shortfall 
in amount spent)
2023-24
 11.47 
 109.48 
 113.61 
 15.60 
2024-25
 15.60 
 125.00 
 131.74 
 22.34 
	
In respect of other than ongoing projects, there are no unspent amounts that are required to be transferred to a fund specified in 
Schedule VII of the Companies Act (the Act), in compliance with second proviso to sub section 5 of section 135 of the Act. There 
are no unspent amounts in respect of ongoing projects, that are required to be transferred to a special account in compliance 
of provision of sub section (6) of section 135 of Companies Act.
193 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
38	 Subsequent Events
i)	
Subsequent to the year end, the Board of Directors of the company, as its meeting held on 9th April 2025, have approved an 
acquisition of additional 52749 equity shares of face value of Re. 1 each at a premium of H 1421, in its subsidiary viz., Maxwell 
Energy Systems Private Limited (‘Maxwell’).
	
In this regard, the company has executed a Share Purchase Agreement (‘SPA’) dated 8th May 2025 with the relevant parties, 
to inter alia, acquire the remaining entire 38.50% stake at a negotiated upfront cash consideration of approx. H 75.01 million. 
 
This is subject to the covenants and conditions precedent to the closing. The transaction is expected to be completed within 45 
days from the date of SPA.
	
Post this stake acquisition, Maxwell will become a wholly owned subsidiary of the company.
	
The objective of this transaction is to have full control over Maxwell that will enable the company to extract more synergies in 
the electronics and automotive business. 
ii)	
On 15th May, 2025, the Board of Directors of the Company have proposed a dividend of H 10 per equity share of face value 
H 10 each in respect of the year ended 31st March, 2025. The dividend payout is subject to approval of the shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting.
	
On 16th May, 2024, the Board of Directors of the Company had proposed a dividend of H 8.50 per equity share of face value H 10 
(85%) each in respect of the year ended 31st March, 2024. The dividend was duly paid in August 2024.
39 	 Disclosure under sections 186(4) of the Companies Act, 2013
 H in million
Name of the party
As at 
31st March, 
2025
Maximum amount 
outstanding during 
FY 2024-25
As at 
31st March 
2024
Maximum amount 
outstanding during 
FY 2023-24
Details of Loan given 
Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited (Refer note 
5)
 137.00 
 137.00 
 100.00 
 100.00 
The above loan has been given to meet the working capital requirement of the subsidiary.
40	 Company as a lessee
Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movement during the year:
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
As at 1st April
 80.22 
 97.50 
Additions
 195.57 
 2.18 
Deletions, modifications and adjustments during the year
 (3.44)
 - 
Accretion of interest
 7.74 
 7.31 
Payments
 (33.80)
 (26.77)
As at 31st March
 246.29 
 80.22 
Current
 51.87 
 21.26 
Non current
 194.42 
 58.96 
The maturity analysis of lease liability is disclosed in note 11.01
The effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 8.0% p.a. with maturity between 2025-2030
194  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
41	 Exceptional Items
a) 	 Voluntary Separation Scheme (VSS)
	
During the current year, the Company announced a Voluntary separation scheme (VSS) for its employees at its L-6/3, LPDC, 
Waluj, Maharashtra. Fifty seven employees opted for the scheme. The company settled their dues on 17th April, 2025. The 
Company paid H 106.35 million (previous year Nil) as separation compensation to the said employees on 17th April, 2025 which 
is disclosed as an exceptional item in the statement of profit and loss.
b) 	 Provision for expected credit loss of trade receivables:
	
(i) 	
Hero Electric Vehicles Private Limited (‘Hero Electric’)
	
	
During the current financial year, pursuant to a petition filed by one of the operational creditor of Hero Electric under 
the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (‘Code’), the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’), New Delhi 
bench, vide its order dated 20th December 2024, admitted Hero Electric into Corporate Insolvency Resolution 
Process (‘CIRP’) and has appointed the Interim Resolution Professional (‘IRP’) for conducting the CIRP as per the code. 
The IRP of Hero Electric had made a public announcement inviting claims from the operational and financial creditors 
of Hero Electric.
	
	
The company has accordingly filed its claim with the IRP and is awaiting further progress in the matter. 
Considering the above development, the company has made a provision for expected credit loss of trade receivables 
of H 14.18 million and classified as an exceptional item. This will be evaluated from time-to-time basis further progress in 
CIRP proceedings. 
	
(ii) 	 KTM group, Austria (‘KTM’) 
	
	
During the current financial year, one of the customer viz., KTM group, Austria, consisting of KTM AG, KTM Components 
GMBH and KTM Forschungs & Entwicklungs legal entities, filed for court restructuring with self-administration. The aim of 
the proceedings was to agree a restructuring plan with the creditors within defined timelines. 
	
	
The company had received a letter from AKV Europa, a restructuring administrator of KTM, mentioning that the creditors of 
KTM were offered a cash quota of 30% of their total claims in the form of a one-off payment subject to certain conditions.
	
	
KTM’s creditors had approved the above-mentioned restructuring plan. 
	
	
Considering the above, the company has made a provision of expected credit loss of trade receivables of H 53.06 million and 
classified as an exceptional item. This will be evaluated from time-to-time basis further progress in restructuring proceedings. 
The following are the amounts recognized in the statement of profit or loss:
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets
 31.61 
 23.38 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 7.74 
 7.31 
Total amount recognized in profit or loss
 39.35 
 30.69 
During the year the Company had total cash outflows for leases of H 33.80 million (previous year H 26.77 million).The Company also 
had non-cash additions to right-of-use assets and lease liabilities of H 195.57 million (previous year H 2.18 million)
195 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
Ratio
FY 2024-25 
J in million
Times/%
FY 2023-24 
J in million
Times/%
Change % change Reasons for change
Numerator
Denominator
(a) Current Ratio
Current assets
25,490.81 
2.6 
21,564.94 
2.6 
0.0 
0.0%
Current liabilities
9,981.72 
8,433.18 
(b) Debt-Equity Ratio
Net debt
(5,858.84)
-0.1 
(4,098.88)
-0.1 
0.0 
0.0%
Shareholders' equity
43,480.09 
38,053.20 
(c) Debt Service Coverage Ratio
Earnings available for debt service2
9,702.84 
135.5 
8,526.87 
189.3 
-53.8 
-28.4% Variance is on 
account of 
additions of 
Right-of-Use (ROU) 
assets during 
the year and 
corresponding 
increase in lease 
liabilities.
Debt service3
71.61 
45.04 
(d) Return on Equity (ROE)
Net profit after taxes
6,786.59 
16.6%
5,877.93 
16.5%
0.2%
1.1%
Average shareholders' equity
40,766.65 
35,681.31 
(e) Inventory turnover ratio
Cost of goods sold
57,284.51 
11.0 
51,407.05 
11.3 
-0.3 
-2.7%
Average inventory
5,218.98 
4,553.18 
(f) Trade Receivables turnover ratio
Net credit sales4
87,673.74 
8.0 
77,867.27 
8.1 
-0.1 
-1.2%
Average trade receivables
11,003.42 
9,586.19 
(g) Trade payables turnover ratio
Net credit purchases5
58,332.37 
7.8 
52,061.39 
8.4 
-0.6 
-7.1%
Average trade payables
7,456.10 
6,213.27 
(h) Net capital turnover ratio
Total income
89,127.30 
5.7 
79,204.71 
6.0 
-0.3 
-5.0%
Working capital
15,509.09 
13,131.76 
(i) Net profit ratio
Net profit
6,786.59 
7.6%
5,877.93 
7.4%
0.2%
2.6%
Total income
89,127.30 
79,204.71 
(j) Return on Capital employed 
(ROCE)
Earnings before interest and taxes
9,100.36 
22.2%
7,926.51 
22.1%
0.1%
0.5%
Capital employed1
41,065.69 
35,939.19 
(k) Return on investment6
Total gain (realised and unrealised)
8.6%
8.8%
-0.2%
-1.8%
Average Investments
Note 42 - Ratios to the standalone financial statements 
Notes
1	
Total debt includes non current borrowings, current borrowings, current maturities of non current borrowings and right-of-use 
lease obligation,  net off current investments and cash and cash equivalents.
2	
Earnings available for debt service includes net profit after tax, depreciation and finance cost excluding bank charges.
3	
Debt service includes finance cost excluding bank charges, current maturities of long term borrowings and current portion of 
lease liabilities.	
4	
Net credit sales includes sale of products, sale of services, wind power sale and scrap sale.	
5	
Net credit purchases includes raw material purchases and purchases of stock-in-trade (traded goods).
6	
Return on investment includes return on current investments.
196  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
43	 Segment reporting
	
Information reported to the chief operating decision maker (CODM) for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment 
of segment performance focuses on the types of goods or services delivered or provided. The Company is in the business of 
manufacture and sale of automobile components, which in the context of Indian Accounting Standard 108 ‘Operating Segment’ 
represents a single reportable business segment. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the 
material accounting policies disclosed in Note 2.
44	 The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post employment benefits 
received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. However, the date on 
which the Code will come into effect has not been notified and the final rules/interpretation have not yet been issued. The 
Company will assess the impact of the Code when it comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period the Code 
becomes effective.
45	 Ind AS 105 - “Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations” requires non-current assets to be identified as held 
for sale if the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. For this 
to be the case, the assets must be available for immediate sale in its present condition and the sale must be highly probable. 
During the previous year, based on the assessment performed by the management, it was determined that the below 
assets situated at village Takve BK, Taluka Maval, District Pune, should be presented as held for sale under Ind AS 
105. Consequently, the assets held for sale have been presented separately from other assets in the balance sheet. 
During the current year, on 9th October, 2024, the company has sold land, building and other assets, which were classified as 
asset held for sale as on 31st March, 2024.
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
A) 	Assets
	
Non-current assets 
	
Freehold land 
 - 
 52.59 
	
Building 
 - 
 53.05 
	
Plant and equipment
 - 
 0.04 
	
Furniture & fixtures 
 - 
 0.05 
Total Assets classified as held for sale 
 - 
 105.73 
B) 	Liabilities
	
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale	
 - 
 - 
Total Liabilities associated with assets held for sale
 - 
 - 
C) 	Net Assets associated with disposal group
 - 
 105.73 
46	 Other statutory information
(i)	
The Company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Company 
for holding any Benami property under Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 and rules made thereunder.
(ii)	
There are no transactions with the struck off companies during the current year and previous year.	
(iii)	
The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which are yet to be registered with Registrar of Companies (ROC) 
beyond the statutory period.
(iv)	
The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
(v)	
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person or entity, including foreign entities (Intermediaries) 
with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
197 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements
	
(vi)	
The Company have not received any fund from any person or entity, including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
	
	
a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
(vii)	 The Company does not have any such transaction which is  not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or 
any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
	
(viii)	 The Company has not been declared a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender (as defined 
under the Companies Act, 2013) or consortium thereof, in accordance with the guidelines on wilful defaulters issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India.
	
(ix)	
The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on the current or previous 
financial year.
	
(x)	
The Company has not been sanctioned woking capital limits, in excess of rupees Five Crores in aggregate from banks or 
financial institutions during any point of time of the year on the basis of security of current assets.
	
(xi)	
The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
47	 The figures for the corresponding previous year have been regrouped / reclassified wherever necessary to make them comparable.
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
As per our report of even date
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
	
Soumendra Basu	
Anurang Jain
	
Chairman	
Managing Director
	
(DIN : 01125409)	
(DIN : 00291662)
per Mustafa Saleem	
R S Raja Gopal Sastry	
Sunil Lalai
Partner	
Group CFO	
Company Secretary & Executive 
Membership No.: 136969	
	
Vice President–Legal
	
	
(Membership No :  A8078)
Date: 15th May, 2025	
Date: 15th May, 2025
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Mumbai   
198  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Independent Auditor’s Report
To
The Members of
Endurance Technologies Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements of Endurance Technologies Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as “the Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries (the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as 
“the Group”) comprising of the consolidated Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025, the consolidated Statement of Profit and 
Loss, including other comprehensive income, the consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement and the consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and notes to 
the consolidated financial statements, including a summary 
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated 
financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration 
of reports of other auditors on separate financial statements 
and on the other financial information of the subsidiaries, the 
aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (“the Act”) in 
the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the 
consolidated state of affairs of the Group as at March 31, 2025, 
their consolidated profit including other comprehensive income, 
their consolidated cash flows and the consolidated statement of 
changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements 
in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified 
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those 
Standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities 
for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements’ section 
of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance 
with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that 
are relevant to our audit of the financial statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the 
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2025. These matters were addressed in the context 
of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, 
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. For the matter below, our 
description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided 
in that context. 
We have determined the matter described below to be the key 
audit matter to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled 
the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for 
the audit of the consolidated financial statements section of 
our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, 
our audit included the performance of procedures designed to 
respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements. The results of 
audit procedures performed by us and by other auditors of 
components not audited by us, as reported by them in their 
audit reports furnished to us by the management, including 
those procedures performed to address the matter below, 
provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying 
consolidated financial statements.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment testing of Goodwill pertaining to acquisition of Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited (‘Maxwell’)
[as described in Note 25 of the consolidated financial statements]
The Group’s balance sheet as at March 31, 2025 included  
H 1,035.39 million of goodwill (post impairment) pertaining to 
Maxwell.
The Group tested the above goodwill for impairment as at year end 
using discounted cash flow model wherein the CGU’s recoverable 
amount was compared to the carrying value of the CGU’s net assets 
(including such goodwill). As a result, the group recognised an 
impairment of H 581.67 million as at March 31, 2025. The group also 
reversed the deferred consideration liability in respect of acquisition 
of Maxwell of H 912.68 million pursuant to agreement dated May 08, 
2025 executed with erstwhile promoters of Maxwell.
Our audit procedures included the following:
 
 
We obtained understanding of the Group’s process on 
assessment of impairment of goodwill and tested the 
design and operating effectiveness of the relevant controls 
over impairment assessment.
 
 
We evaluated the Group’s valuation methodology applied 
in determining the recoverable amount. We also assessed 
the objectivity and independence of Group’s external 
specialist involved in the process.
199 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Other Information
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for 
the other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Corporate Governance report, (but 
does not include the consolidated financial statements and 
our auditor’s report thereon) which we obtained prior to the 
date of this auditor’s report, and the Board’s Report, Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR), Management 
Discussion and Analysis and Corporate Overview, which is 
expected to be made available to us after that date.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above and, in doing so, consider whether such other 
information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the 
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report 
that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the Board’s Report, Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report (BRSR), Management Discussion and 
Analysis and Corporate Overview, if we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate 
the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities 
of 
Management 
for 
the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial 
statements in terms of the requirements of the Act that give a true 
and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated 
financial performance including other comprehensive income, 
consolidated cash flows and consolidated statement of changes 
in equity of the Group in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of 
the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended. The respective Board of Directors 
of the companies included in the Group are responsible for 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of their 
respective companies and for preventing and detecting frauds 
and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give 
a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the 
purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements 
by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the 
Group are responsible for assessing the ability of their respective 
companies to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the 
going concern basis of accounting unless management either 
intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so.
Those respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are also responsible for overseeing the financial 
reporting process of their respective companies.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that 
an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a 
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The impairment testing model includes sensitivity testing of 
key assumptions, including operating margins, discount rate, 
terminal growth, etc.
The impairment testing for goodwill involved significant 
judgements and estimates because the assumptions on which 
the tests are based are highly judgmental and are affected by 
future market and economic conditions which are inherently 
uncertain in the case of Maxwell. Accordingly, the same 
is determined to be a key audit matter in our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements.
 
 
We involved valuation specialist, where necessary, to assist 
in assessing the appropriateness of the valuation model 
including the independent assessment of the underlying 
key assumptions relating to operating margins, discount 
rate and terminal growth.
 
 
We also assessed the recoverable value headroom by 
performing sensitivity testing of key assumptions used.
 
 
We compared the cash flow forecasts used in impairment 
testing to approved budgets.
 
 
We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the models.
 
 
We assessed the adequacy of disclosures in the 
consolidated financial statements.
200  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually 
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
 
 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the 
consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive 
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The 
risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
 
 
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of 
the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the Holding Company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements in 
place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
 
 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by management.
 
 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of 
the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the ability of the Group to continue as 
a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty 
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the consolidated 
financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, 
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the 
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the 
Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
 
 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the consolidated financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
 
 
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the 
financial information of the entities or business activities 
within the Group of which we are the independent 
auditors to express an opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of the financial 
statements of such entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements of which we are the independent 
auditors. For the other entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements, which have been audited by other 
auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the audits 
carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for 
our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other entities included in 
the consolidated financial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement 
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them 
all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be 
thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated in our 
report because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
Other Matters
We did not audit the financial statements and other financial 
information, in respect of nine subsidiaries whose financial 
statements include total assets of H 41,891.43 million as at March 
31, 2025, and total revenues of H 27,202.85 million and net cash 
inflows of H 4,358.46 million for the year ended on that date. 
These financial statements and other financial information have 
been audited by other auditors, which financial statements, other 
financial information and auditor’s reports have been furnished 
to us by the management. Our opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and 
disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, and our 
report in terms of sub-sections (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so 
far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, is based solely on 
the reports of such other auditors.
These subsidiaries are located outside India whose financial 
statements and other financial information have been prepared 
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted 
in their respective countries and which have been audited by 
other auditors under generally accepted auditing standards 
applicable in their respective countries. The Holding Company’s 
management has converted the financial statements of such 
subsidiaries located outside India from accounting principles 
generally accepted in their respective countries to accounting 
principles generally accepted in India. We have audited these 
conversion adjustments made by the Holding Company’s 
management. Our opinion in so far as it relates to the balances 
201 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
and affairs of such subsidiaries located outside India is based 
on the report of other auditors and the conversion adjustments 
prepared by the management of the Holding Company 
and audited by us.
Our opinion above on the consolidated financial statements, 
and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
below, is not modified in respect of the above matters with 
respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the 
other auditors.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government 
of India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the 
Act, based on our audit there are no matters which require 
reporting as specified in paragraph 3(xxi) of the Order.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit 
and on the consideration of report of the other auditors 
on separate financial statements and the other financial 
information of subsidiaries, as noted in the ‘other matter’ 
paragraph we report, to the extent applicable, that:
	
(a)	
We/the other auditors whose reports we have relied 
upon have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our knowledge 
and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit 
of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements;
	
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidation of the financial statements have been 
kept so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books and reports of the other auditors. In so far as 
the modification on maintaining an audit trail in the 
accounting software is concerned, refer paragraph (i) 
(vi) on reporting under Rule 11(g);
	
(c)	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement 
of Other Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement and Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are 
in agreement with the books of account maintained 
for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements;
	
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended;
	
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Holding Company as on 
March 31, 2025 taken on record by the Board of 
Directors of the Holding Company and the reports 
of the statutory auditors who are appointed under 
Section 139 of the Act, of its subsidiary, none of the 
directors of the Group’s companies incorporated 
in India, is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 
(2) of the Act;
	
(f)	
The modification arising from the maintenance of the 
audit trail on the accounting software, comprising 
the application and database are as stated in the 
paragraph (i) (vi) on reporting under Rule 11(g);
	
(g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiary, incorporated in India, and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
Report in “Annexure 1” to this report;
	
(h)	
In our opinion and based on the consideration of 
reports of other statutory auditors of the subsidiary 
incorporated in India, the managerial remuneration 
for the year ended March 31, 2025 has been paid / 
provided by the Holding Company and its subsidiary 
incorporated in India to their directors in accordance 
with the provisions of section 197 read with 
Schedule V to the Act;
	
(i)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given 
to us and based on the consideration of the report of 
the other auditors on separate financial statements as 
also the other financial information of the subsidiaries, 
as noted in the ‘Other matter’ paragraph:
	
	
i.	
The consolidated financial statements disclose 
the impact of pending litigations on the 
consolidated financial position of the Group, 
in its consolidated financial statements – Refer 
Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements;
	
	
ii.	
Provision has been made in the consolidated 
financial statements, as required under the 
applicable law or accounting standards, for 
material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts – Refer 
Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements 
in respect of such items as it relates to the Group.
	
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund by the 
Holding Company and there were no amounts 
which were required to be transferred to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund by its 
subsidiary incorporated in India during the year 
ended March 31, 2025.
	
	
iv.	
a) 	
The respective managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiary 
incorporated in India whose financial 
202  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
per Mustafa Saleem
Partner
Membership Number: 136969
UDIN: 25136969BMNSYA9573   
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Date: May 15, 2025
statements have been audited under the 
Act have represented to us that, to the best 
of its knowledge and belief, no funds have 
been advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium or 
any other sources or kind of funds) by the 
Holding Company or the subsidiary to or 
in any other person or entity, including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the respective Holding Company or the 
subsidiary (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
	
b) 	
The respective managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiary 
incorporated in India whose financial 
statements have been audited  under the 
Act have represented to us that, to the 
best of its knowledge and belief, no funds 
have been received by the respective 
Holding Company or the subsidiary from 
any person or entity, including foreign 
entities (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, 
whether 
recorded 
in 
writing or otherwise, that the Holding 
Company or the subsidiary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
	
	
c) 	
Based on the audit procedures that 
have 
been 
considered 
reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances 
performed by us, nothing has come to our 
notice that has caused us to believe that 
the representations under sub-clause (a) 
and (b) contain any material misstatement.
	
	
v) 	
The final dividend paid by the Holding Company 
during the year in respect of the same declared 
for the previous year is in accordance with 
section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
payment of dividend.
	
	
	
As stated in Note 38 to the consolidated 
financial statements, the Board of Directors 
of the Holding Company has proposed final 
dividend for the year which is subject to the 
approval of the members at the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting. The dividend declared is in 
accordance with section 123 of the Act to the 
extent it applies to declaration of dividend.
	
	
	
No dividend has been declared or paid 
during the year by the subsidiary company 
incorporated in India.
	
	
vi) 	
Based on our examination which included test 
checks, the Holding Company and its subsidiary 
which is a company incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited under 
the Act have used SAP S4/HANA accounting 
software for maintaining its books of account 
which has a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility in respect of the accounting 
software and the same has operated throughout 
the year for all relevant transactions recorded 
in the software.
	
	
	
Further, during the course of audit, we did 
not come across any instance of audit trail 
feature being tampered with in respect of the 
accounting software. Normal/ Regular users 
are not granted direct database or super user 
level access. However, changes to the back-
end database by a super user did not carry the 
feature of a concurrent real time audit trail for 
the period April 01, 2024 till October 25, 2024.
	
	
	
Additionally, the audit trail of prior year has 
been preserved by the Holding Company and 
its subsidiary which is a company incorporated 
in India as per the statutory requirements for 
record retention to the extent it was enabled 
and recorded in the respective year.
203 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Annexure 1 
to the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date on the consolidated financial statements of Endurance Technologies Limited
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under 
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of Endurance Technologies Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Holding Company”) as of and for the year 
ended March 31, 2025, we have audited the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of 
the Holding Company and its subsidiary (the Holding Company 
and its subsidiary together referred to as “the Group”) , which 
are companies incorporated in India, as of that date. 
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls 
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group which are companies incorporated in India, are 
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Holding Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (ICAI). These responsibilities include the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial 
controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly 
and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the 
respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required under 
the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Holding 
Company's internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We 
conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, specified 
under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls, both, issued by ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with 
ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
was established and maintained and if such controls operated 
effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements and their 
operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements included 
obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating 
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based 
on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the 
auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on 
the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
A company's internal financial control with reference to 
consolidated financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company's internal financial control with 
reference to consolidated financial statements includes those 
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; 
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made 
only in accordance with authorisations of management and 
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance 
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that 
could have a material effect on the financial statements.
204  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
with 
Reference 
to 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements, including 
the possibility of collusion or improper management override 
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may 
occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that 
the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements may become inadequate because of 
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Group has maintained in all material 
respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements and such internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the 
internal control over financial reporting criteria established by 
the Holding Company considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI. 
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
per Mustafa Saleem
Partner
Membership Number: 136969
UDIN: 25136969BMNSYA9573
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Date: May 15, 2025
205 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
as at 31st March, 2025 
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296
H in million
Particulars
Note 
No.
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
ASSETS
1
Non-current assets
(a)  Property, plant and equipment 
3
       36,124.55 
        31,336.54 
(b)  Capital work-in-progress 
3A
         2,901.53 
          1,567.17 
(c)  Goodwill
25
         3,405.12 
          3,923.00 
(d)  Other intangible assets  
3
         1,051.80 
          1,042.88 
(e)  Intangible assets under development
3A
             28.15 
              25.47 
(f)  Financial assets 
	
(i)   Investments
4
            156.76 
            275.23 
	
(ii)  Other financial assets
5
            158.18 
            129.81 
(g)  Deferred tax assets (net)
17A
            695.13 
            782.67 
(h)  Other non-current assets 
6
            932.56 
          1,874.84 
     45,453.78 
      40,957.61 
2
Current assets 
(a) 	 Inventories
7
         9,363.65 
          8,722.12 
(b) 	 Financial assets 
	
(i) 	
Investments
4A
         7,879.29 
          7,650.67 
	
(ii) 	 Trade receivables
8
       14,185.76 
        12,623.80 
	
(iii) 	 Cash and cash equivalents
9
       10,188.59 
          5,046.26 
	
(iv) 	 Bank balances other than (iii) above
9A
               0.45 
                0.54 
	
 (v) 	 Loans
5A
             33.63 
              19.95 
	
(vi) 	 Other financial assets
5B
         1,983.03 
          1,735.81 
(c) 	 Current tax assets (net)
6A
            774.21 
            899.16 
(d) 	 Other current assets
6B
         1,530.42 
          1,095.29 
     45,939.03 
      37,793.60 
3
Asset held for sale
42
                  - 
            105.73 
Total Assets (1+2+3)
     91,392.81 
      78,856.94 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1
Equity 
(a) 	 Equity share capital
10
         1,406.63 
          1,406.63 
(b) 	 Other equity
10A
       55,767.53 
        48,367.78 
Total equity
     57,174.16 
      49,774.41 
LIABILITIES
2
Non-current liabilities
(a) 	 Financial liabilities
	
(i)	
Borrowings
11
         5,946.41 
          4,802.53 
	
(ii)	
Lease liabilities
11A
            286.02 
            164.89 
	
(iii) 	 Other financial liabilities
12
            199.96 
            994.80 
(b)	 Provisions
13
            734.60 
            601.78 
(c)	
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
17A
            133.54 
            144.28 
       7,300.53 
        6,708.28 
3
Current liabilities
(a) 	 Financial liabilities
	
(i)	
Borrowings
14
         3,092.23 
          2,595.29 
	
(ii)	
Lease liabilities
14.1
            112.05 
              90.69 
	
(iii)	 Trade payables
15
	
	
(a)	
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
         1,012.74 
            734.98 
	
	
(b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
       18,729.85 
        15,309.68 
	
(iv)	 Other financial liabilities
12A
         1,598.65 
          2,118.38 
(b) 	 Other current liabilities
16
         1,948.73 
          1,204.94 
(c) 	 Provisions
13A
            263.49 
            244.53 
(d) 	 Current tax liabilities (net)
17
            160.38 
              75.76 
     26,918.12 
      22,374.25 
Total Equity and Liabilities (1+2+3)
     91,392.81 
      78,856.94 
Material accounting policies
2
See accompanying notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
	
Soumendra Basu	
Anurang Jain
	
Chairman	
Managing Director
	
(DIN : 01125409)	
(DIN : 00291662)
per Mustafa Saleem	
R S Raja Gopal Sastry	
Sunil Lalai
Partner	
Group CFO	
Company Secretary & Executive 
(Membership No: 136969)	
	
Vice President–Legal
	
	
(Membership No : A8078)
Date: 15th May, 2025	
Date: 15th May, 2025
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Mumbai   
206  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025 
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296
H in million
Particulars
Note 
No.
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
I 	
Revenue from operations
18
        115,608.10 
        102,408.71 
II	
Other income
19
             1,169.74 
                856.15 
III	
Total income (I + II)
      116,777.84 
      103,264.86 
IV	 Expenses
(a)	 Cost of materials consumed
20A
           65,048.69 
           59,229.58 
(b)	 Purchases of stock-in-trade (traded goods)
20B
             1,117.53 
             1,409.06 
(c)	 Changes in stock of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
20C
               (135.05)
               (132.91)
(d)	 Employee benefits expense
21
           10,073.49 
             8,798.97 
(e)	 Finance costs
22
                468.11 
                426.58 
(f)	
Depreciation and amortisation expense
3
             5,387.05 
             4,739.93 
(g)	 Other expenses
23
           23,992.68 
           19,824.17 
Total expenses (IV)
105,952.50 
94,295.38 
V	
Profit before exceptional items and tax (III - IV)
10,825.34 
8,969.48 
VI	
Exceptional items
39
(121.77)
                        - 
VII	 Profit before tax (V - VI)
10,947.11 
8,969.48 
VIII	 Tax expense
	
Current tax expense
2,474.91 
             2,096.84 
	
Short/(excess) provision for tax relating to earlier years
(21.63)
               (125.13)
	
Total current tax expense
2,453.28 
             1,971.71 
	
Deferred tax (credit)/charge
130.30 
                192.89 
	
Total tax expense
24
2,583.58 
           2,164.60 
IX	 Profit for the year (VII - VIII)
8,363.53 
           6,804.88 
X	
Other comprehensive income
	
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss in subsequent years
	
Remeasurements of defined benefit plans
                 (36.06)
                 (40.41)
	
Income-tax effect
                    8.88 
                  10.31 
	
Gain/(loss) on change in fair value of equity instruments
               (143.61)
               (156.24)
	
Income-tax effect
                  12.30 
                  35.75 
	
Total
               (158.49)
               (150.59)
	
Items that will be reclassified to profit and loss in subsequent years
	
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
                471.19 
                150.59 
	
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges
               (111.46)
               (231.09)
	
Income-tax effect of cash flow hedges
                  30.61 
                  63.97 
	
Total
390.34 
(16.53)
	
Total other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year
              231.85 
            (167.12)
XI	 Total comprehensive income for the year (IX + X)
           8,595.38 
           6,637.76 
XII	 Profit for the year attributable to:
	
Equity holders of the parent
             8,363.53 
             6,804.88 
	
Non controlling interest
                        - 
                        - 
	
Total
           8,363.53 
           6,804.88 
XIII Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
             8,595.38 
             6,637.76 
Non controlling interest
                        - 
                        - 
Total
           8,595.38 
           6,637.76 
XIV Basic and diluted earnings per equity share (H) (Face value per equity share H 10)
33
                  59.46 
                  48.38 
Material accounting policies
2
See accompanying notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
	
Soumendra Basu	
Anurang Jain
	
Chairman	
Managing Director
	
(DIN : 01125409)	
(DIN : 00291662)
per Mustafa Saleem	
R S Raja Gopal Sastry	
Sunil Lalai
Partner	
Group CFO	
Company Secretary & Executive 
(Membership No: 136969)	
	
Vice President–Legal
	
	
(Membership No : A8078)
Date: 15th May, 2025	
Date: 15th May, 2025
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Mumbai   
207 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025 
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296
A	
 Equity share capital
B 	 Changes in other equity
H in Million 
Particulars
 As at 
31st March, 2025 
 As at 
31st March, 2024 
Balance at the beginning of the year 
 1,406.63 
 1,406.63 
Changes in Equity Share Capital during the year*
 - 
 - 
Balance at the end of the year 
 1,406.63 
 1,406.63 
*There are no changes in share capital due to prior period errors.
H in million
Particulars
	
	
	
	
Reserves and surplus
Other Comprehensive Income
Equity 
attributable to 
shareholders of 
the Company
Total 
Equity
Securities 
premium
General 
reserve
Capital 
Reserve
Retained 
earnings
Foreign 
Currency 
Translation 
Reserve
Equity instrument 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Cash 
Flow 
Hedge 
Reserve
Balance as at 1st April, 2023
160.40
1,195.40
209.32
38,665.28
2,191.35
46.45
246.46
42,714.66
42,714.66
Profit for the year
-
-
-
6,804.88
-
-
-
6,804.88
6,804.88
Other comprehensive income for the 
year, net of tax
-
-
-
(30.10)
148.47
(120.49)
(165.00)
(167.12)
(167.12)
Payment of dividend (Refer note 38 (ii))
-
-
-
(984.64)
-
-
-
(984.64)
(984.64)
Subtotal
-
-
-
5,790.14
148.47
(120.49)
(165.00)
5,653.12
5,653.12
Balance as at 31st March, 2024
160.40
1,195.40
209.32
44,455.42
2,339.82
(74.04)
81.46
48,367.78
48,367.78
H in million
Particulars
Reserves and surplus
Other Comprehensive Income
Equity 
attributable to 
shareholders of 
the Company
Total 
Equity
Securities 
premium
General 
reserve
Capital 
Reserve
Retained 
earnings
Foreign 
Currency 
Translation 
Reserve
Equity instrument 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Cash Flow 
Hedge 
Reserve
Balance as at 1st April, 2024
 160.40 
 1,195.40 
 209.32 
44,455.42 
 2,339.82 
 (74.04)
 81.46 
 48,367.78 
48,367.78 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8,363.53 
 - 
 - 
 8,363.53 
 8,363.53 
Other comprehensive income for the 
year, net of tax
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (27.18)
 470.45 
 (131.31)
 (80.11)
 231.85 
 231.85 
Payment of dividend  (Refer note 38 (ii))
 - 
 - 
 - 
(1,195.63)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,195.63)
(1,195.63)
Subtotal
 - 
 - 
 - 
7,140.72 
 470.45 
 (131.31)
 (80.11)
 7,399.75 
7,399.75 
Balance as at 31st March, 2025
 160.40 
1,195.40  209.32 51,596.14 
 2,810.27 
 (205.35)
 1.35 
 55,767.53 55,767.53 
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
	
Soumendra Basu	
Anurang Jain
	
Chairman	
Managing Director
	
(DIN : 01125409)	
(DIN : 00291662)
per Mustafa Saleem	
R S Raja Gopal Sastry	
Sunil Lalai
Partner	
Group CFO	
Company Secretary & Executive 
(Membership No: 136969)	
	
Vice President–Legal
	
	
(Membership No : A8078)
Date: 15th May, 2025	
Date: 15th May, 2025
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Mumbai   
208  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025 
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296
H in million
Particulars
 For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
 For the year ended 
31st March, 2024 
A Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before tax
        10,947.11 
          8,969.48 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
          5,387.05 
          4,739.93 
Allowance for doubtful debts
                2.46 
                4.39 
Bad debts written off
                1.54 
               11.75 
Finance costs
             459.82 
             418.30 
Excess provision/creditors written back
           (100.19)
             (56.73)
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
             (71.41)
             (90.45)
Interest income
             (92.05)
             (31.41)
Dividend income
               (2.56)
               (5.61)
Gain on financial instruments carried at fair value through Profit or Loss (net)
           (515.40)
           (449.37)
Unrealised exchange gain (net) 
               (9.93)
               (6.17)
Exceptional items
           (121.77)
                    - 
Loss on lease modification (net)
                0.05 
                    - 
Exchange difference arising on consolidation
             176.12 
               63.95 
Operating profit before working capital changes
        16,060.84 
        13,568.06 
Movement in working capital
Adjustments for (increase) / decrease in operating assets
  	
Inventories
           (519.32)
           (516.29)
	
Trade receivables
         (1,138.89)
         (1,019.22)
  	
Other financial assets
           (292.21)
           (610.62)
  	
Other assets
           (432.76)
           (271.38)
Adjustments for increase / (decrease) in operating liabilities
  	
Trade payables
          3,167.67 
          1,800.06 
  	
Provisions
               16.10 
           (164.75)
  	
Other current liabilities
             558.12 
             (32.21)
  	
Other financial liabilities
               65.61 
               10.95 
Cash generated from operating activities
17,485.16 
        12,764.60 
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds)
         (2,168.29)
         (2,193.73)
Net cash flows from operating activities
       15,316.87 
       10,570.87 
B Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment; and intangible assets (including 
capital work in progress, intangible assets under development and capital 
advances)
       (10,534.16)
         (8,348.28)
Proceeds on sale of property, plant and equipment (including assets held for sale)
             471.19 
             147.14 
(Increase)/Decrease in other bank balances
                0.09 
               (1.06)
Investment in equity shares
             (25.14)
           (176.78)
Redemption/(Investment) in mutual funds and other instruments (net)
               69.91 
         (1,040.85)
Acquisition of subsidiary (Refer note 26)
           (203.35)
                    - 
Acquisition of additional shares in subsidiary (Refer note 26 b)
               (0.01)
             (69.43)
Interest received
               91.95 
               31.40 
Dividend received
                2.56 
                5.61 
Net cash flows used in investing activities
     (10,126.96)
       (9,452.25)
209 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025 
CIN: L34102MH1999PLC123296
See accompanying notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements
Notes:	
1 	
Figures in brackets represent outflows.	
2 	
Previous year figures have been regrouped, wherever necessary, to conform to current year’s presentation.
H in million
Particulars
 For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
 For the year ended 
31st March, 2024 
C Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from long term borrowings 
             989.27 
          4,222.52 
Repayments of long term borrowings
             (25.92)
         (2,233.31)
Proceeds from short term borrowings (net)
             417.33 
             523.51 
Finance costs paid
           (366.87)
           (324.40)
Dividend paid
         (1,195.61)
           (984.58)
Payment of interest portion of lease liabilities
             (11.87)
             (12.69)
Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities
             (98.11)
           (140.02)
Net cash flows used in financing activities
          (291.78)
         1,051.03 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
         4,898.13 
         2,169.65 
Cash and cash equivalents taken over on acquisition (Refer note 26)
             244.20 
                    - 
Adjusted net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
         5,142.33 
         2,169.65 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
          5,046.26 
          2,876.61 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
        10,188.59 
          5,046.26 
         5,142.33 
         2,169.65 
Material accounting policies                                                                               2
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
	
Soumendra Basu	
Anurang Jain
	
Chairman	
Managing Director
	
(DIN : 01125409)	
(DIN : 00291662)
per Mustafa Saleem	
R S Raja Gopal Sastry	
Sunil Lalai
Partner	
Group CFO	
Company Secretary & Executive 
(Membership No: 136969)	
	
Vice President–Legal
	
	
(Membership No :  A8078)
Date: 15th May, 2025	
Date: 15th May, 2025
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Mumbai   
210  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
1	
Corporate Information
	
Endurance Technologies Limited ("the Company" or "the 
Holding Company") (CIN L34102MH1999PLC123296) and 
its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as "the Group") is in 
the business of manufacturing and selling of aluminium die 
casting (including alloy wheel), suspension, transmission, 
braking products and battery management systems 
with operations spread across India, Italy and Germany. 
The Company is a public limited company incorporated 
and domiciled in India. The address of its registered office 
is E-92, M.I.D.C. Industrial Area, Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar 
(Aurangabad) – 431136 (Maharashtra), India.
	
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
31st March, 2025 were approved for issue in accordance with 
the resolution of the Board of Directors on 15th May, 2025.
2	
Material Accounting Policies
2.01	Statement of Compliance
	
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have 
been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (referred to as “Ind AS”) notified under the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 
(as amended from time to time) and the presentation 
requirements of Division II of Schedule III to the Companies 
Act, 2013 (Ind AS Compliant Schedule III), as applicable to 
the consolidated financial statements.
2.02	Basis of preparation and presentation
	
These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain 
financial instruments which are measured at fair values at the 
end of each reporting period, as explained in the accounting 
policy 2.25. The consolidated financial statements are 
presented in INR and all values are rounded off to the 
nearest million (INR 000,000), except as stated otherwise. 
The Group has prepared the consolidated financial 
statements on the basis that it will continue to operate as 
a going concern.
2.03	Basis of consolidation
	
The consolidated financial statements comprise the 
financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries 
as at 31st March 2025. Control is achieved when the 
Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from 
its involvement with the investee and has the ability to 
affect those returns through its power over the investee. 
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if and only 
if the Group has:
 
 
Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give 
it the current ability to direct the relevant activities 
of the investee)
 
 
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee, and
 
 
The ability to use its power over the investee to 
affect its returns
	
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting 
rights result in control. To support this presumption and 
when the Group has less than a majority of the voting 
or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all 
relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has 
power over an investee, including:
 
 
The contractual arrangement with the other vote 
holders of the investee
 
 
Rights arising from other contractual arrangements
 
 
The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights
 
 
The size of the group’s holding of voting rights relative 
to the size and dispersion of the holdings of the other 
voting rights holders
	
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an 
investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are 
changes to one or more of the three elements of control. 
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group 
obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the 
Group loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed 
of during the year are included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date the Group gains control until the 
date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
	
Consolidated financial statements are prepared using 
uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other 
events in similar circumstances. If a member of the Group 
uses accounting policies other than those adopted in the 
consolidated financial statements for like transactions and 
events in similar circumstances, appropriate adjustments 
are made to that Group member’s financial statements in 
preparing the consolidated financial statements to ensure 
conformity with the Group’s accounting policies.
	
The financial statements of all entities used for the purpose 
of consolidation are drawn up to same reporting date as that 
of the parent company, i.e., year ended on 31 March. When 
the end of the reporting period of the parent is different 
from that of a subsidiary, the subsidiary prepares, for 
consolidation purposes, additional financial information as 
of the same date as the financial statements of the parent to 
enable the parent to consolidate the financial information 
of the subsidiary, unless it is impracticable to do so.
	
Consolidation procedure:
	
a. 	
Combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income, 
expenses and cash flows of the parent with those of its 
subsidiaries. For this purpose, income and expenses 
of the subsidiary are based on the amounts of the 
assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements at the acquisition date.
211 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
	
b. 	
Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the parent’s 
investment in each subsidiary and the parent’s 
portion of equity of each subsidiary. Business 
combinations policy explains how to account for any 
related goodwill.
	
c. 	
Eliminate in full intragroup assets and liabilities, 
equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to 
transactions between entities of the group (profits 
or losses resulting from intragroup transactions that 
are recognised in assets, such as inventory and fixed 
assets, are eliminated in full). Intragroup losses may 
indicate an impairment that requires recognition 
in the consolidated financial statements. Ind AS 
12 Income Taxes applies to temporary differences 
that arise from the elimination of profits and losses 
resulting from intragroup transactions.
	
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive 
income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the 
parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even 
if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit 
balance. When necessary, adjustments are made to the 
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting 
policies into line with the Group’s accounting policies. All 
intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses 
and cash flows relating to transactions between members of 
the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
	
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without 
a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. 
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it:
 
 
Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and 
liabilities of the subsidiary at their carrying amounts 
at the date when control is lost
 
 
Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-
controlling interests
 
 
Derecognises the cumulative translation differences 
recorded in equity
 
 
Recognises the fair value of the consideration received
 
 
Recognises the fair value of any investment retained
 
 
Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss
 
 
Recognise that distribution of shares of subsidiary to 
Group in Group’s capacity as owners
 
 
Reclassifies the parent’s share of components 
previously recognised in OCI to profit or loss or 
transferred directly to retained earnings, if required 
by other Ind AS as would be required if the Group had 
directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
	
The following subsidiary companies are considered in the consolidated financial statements:
 
Name of the Company
Country of 
Incorporation 
or Residence
Voting Power %
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Endurance GmbH 
Germany
100%
100%
Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy (EOSPA) (formerly known as 
Endurance Overseas Srl)*
Italy
100%
100%
Endurance SpA
Italy
100%
100%
Endurance Castings SpA
Italy
100%
100%
Endurance Engineering Srl
Italy
100%
100%
Endurance Two Wheelers SpA (Refer note 26c)
Italy
100%
100%
GDS Sarl (in the process of liquidation)
Tunisia
100%
100%
Veicoli Srl 
Italy
100%
100%
Ingenia Automation Srl
Italy
100%
0%
Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited (Refer note 26b)#
India
61.5%
56%
	
*Endurance Overseas Srl has converted its status from ‘limited liability’ company to ‘public limited’ company on 20th January, 2025. Accordingly, its name 
has been changed, to that extent, to Endurance Overseas SpA.
	
#Consolidated 100% based on rights available with the Group.
212  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
2.04 Business combinations and goodwill
	
Business combinations are accounted for using the 
acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured 
at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-
controlling interests in the acquiree. For each business 
combination, the Group elects whether to measure the 
non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at 
the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net 
assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
	
The Group determines that it has acquired a business 
when the acquired set of activities and assets include an 
input and a substantive process that together significantly 
contribute to the ability to create outputs.  The acquired 
process is considered substantive if it is critical to the ability 
to continue producing outputs, and the inputs acquired 
include an organised workforce with the necessary skills, 
knowledge, or experience to perform that process or 
it significantly contributes to the ability to continue 
producing outputs and is considered unique or scarce or 
cannot be replaced without significant cost, effort, or delay 
in the ability to continue producing outputs.
	
At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired, 
and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their 
acquisition date fair values. For this purpose, the liabilities 
assumed include contingent liabilities representing present 
obligation and they are measured at their acquisition fair 
values irrespective of the fact that outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits is not probable. However, 
the following assets and liabilities acquired in a business 
combination are measured at the basis indicated below:
 
 
Deferred tax assets or liabilities, and the liabilities 
or assets related to employee benefit arrangements 
are recognised and measured in accordance with 
Ind AS 12 Income Tax and Ind AS 19 Employee 
Benefits respectively.
 
 
Potential tax effects of temporary differences and 
carry forwards of an acquiree that exist at the 
acquisition date or arise as a result of the acquisition 
are accounted in accordance with Ind AS 12.
 
 
Liabilities or equity instruments related to share based 
payment arrangements of the acquiree or share – 
based payments arrangements of the Group entered 
into to replace share-based payment arrangements 
of the acquiree are measured in accordance with Ind 
AS 102 Share-based Payments at the acquisition date.
 
 
Assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held 
for sale in accordance with Ind AS 105 Non-current 
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are 
measured in accordance with that Standard.
 
 
Reacquired rights are measured at a value determined 
on the basis of the remaining contractual term of the 
related contract. Such valuation does not consider 
potential renewal of the reacquired right.
	
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the 
financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate 
classification and designation in accordance with the 
contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent 
conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the 
separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts 
by the acquiree.
	
If the business combination is achieved in stages, any 
previously held equity interest is re-measured at its 
acquisition date fair value and any resulting gain or loss is 
recognised in profit or loss or OCI, as appropriate.
	
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the 
acquirer is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability that 
is a financial instrument and within the scope of Ind AS 109 
Financial Instruments, is measured at fair value with changes 
in fair value recognised in profit or loss in accordance with 
Ind AS 109. If the contingent consideration is not within the 
scope of Ind AS 109, it is measured in accordance with the 
appropriate Ind AS and shall be recognised in profit or loss. 
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not 
re-measured at subsequent reporting dates and subsequent 
its settlement is accounted for within equity.
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess 
of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and 
the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, and 
any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed. If the fair value of the net 
assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration 
transferred, the Group re-assesses whether it has correctly 
identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities 
assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure 
the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date. If 
the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair value 
of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration 
transferred, then the gain is recognised in OCI and 
accumulated in equity as capital reserve. However, if 
there is no clear evidence of bargain purchase, the entity 
recognises the gain directly in equity as capital reserve, 
without routing the same through OCI.
	
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less 
any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose 
of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business 
combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each 
of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to 
benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other 
assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
213 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
	
A cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated 
is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when 
there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the 
recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than 
its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first 
to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata 
based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any 
impairment loss for goodwill is recognised in profit or loss. 
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed 
in subsequent periods.
	
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating 
unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed 
of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation 
is included in the carrying amount of the operation 
when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill 
disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the 
relative values of the disposed operation and the portion 
of the cash-generating unit retained.
	
If the initial accounting for a business combination is 
incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the 
combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts 
for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those 
provisional amounts are adjusted through goodwill during 
the measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities 
are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about 
facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date 
that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognized 
at that date. These adjustments are called as measurement 
period adjustments. The measurement period does not 
exceed one year from the acquisition date.
2.05 Use of estimates and assumptions
	
The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial 
statements requires management to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, 
and the accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of 
contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about these assumptions 
and estimates could result in outcomes that require a 
material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or 
liabilities affected in future periods.
	
a. 	 Judgements
	
	
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies, management has made the following 
judgements, which have the most significant effect 
on the amounts recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements:
	
	
Business combination:
	
	
In accounting for business combinations, judgement 
is required in identifying whether an identifiable 
intangible asset is to be recorded separately from 
goodwill. Additionally, estimating the acquisition date 
fair value of the identifiable assets acquired (including 
useful life estimates), liabilities assumed, and contingent 
consideration 
assumed 
involves 
management 
judgment. These measurements are based on 
information available at the acquisition date and are 
based on expectations and assumptions that have 
been deemed reasonable by management. Changes 
in these judgments, estimates, and assumptions can 
materially affect the results of operations.
	
b. 	 Estimates
	
	
The key assumptions concerning the future and 
other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the 
reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing 
a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are 
described below. The Group based its assumptions 
and estimates on parameters available when the 
consolidated financial statements were prepared. 
Existing circumstances and assumptions about future 
developments, however, may change due to market 
changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the 
control of the Group. Such changes are reflected in 
the assumptions when they occur.
	
	
Impairment of Goodwill:
	
	
The Group tests whether goodwill has suffered any 
impairment at least on an annual basis irrespective of 
whether there is any indication of impairment. The 
recoverable amount of a cash generating unit (CGU) to 
which goodwill balance is allocated is determined based 
on value‑in‑use calculations which require the use of 
assumptions. The calculations use cash flow projections 
based on financial budgets approved by management 
covering a period of 5 years and considering current 
economic conditions. Cash flows beyond that period 
are extrapolated using the estimated growth, consistent 
with industry forecasts. The growth rates are consistent 
with forecasts included in industry reports specific 
to the industry in which each CGU operates. The 
key assumptions used to determine the recoverable 
amounts for the CGUs which have Goodwill amounts 
which are significant in comparison to the total carrying 
amount of goodwill, including a sensitivity analysis, are 
disclosed and further explained in note 25.
	
	
Defined benefit plan:
	
	
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and 
other post-employment benefits and the present 
value of the gratuity obligation are determined using 
actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves 
making various assumptions that may differ from 
actual developments in the future. These include 
the determination of the discount rate; future salary 
increases and mortality rates. Due to the complexities 
214  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, 
a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to 
changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are 
reviewed at each reporting date.
	
	
The parameter most subject to change is the discount 
rate. In determining the appropriate discount rate for 
plans operated in India, the management considers the 
interest rates of government bonds where remaining 
maturity of such bond correspond to expected term of 
defined benefit obligation. For plans operated outside 
India, the management considers the interest rates of 
high quality corporate bonds in currencies consistent 
with the currencies of the post-employment benefit 
obligation with at least an ‘AA’ rating or above, as set 
by an internationally acknowledged rating agency, 
and extrapolated as needed along the yield curve to 
correspond with the expected term of the defined 
benefit obligation. The underlying bonds are further 
reviewed for quality. Those having excessive credit 
spreads are excluded from the analysis of bonds on 
which the discount rate is based, on the basis that they 
do not represent high quality corporate bonds.
	
	
The mortality rate is based on publicly available 
mortality tables for the specific countries. Those 
mortality tables tend to change only at interval in 
response to demographic changes. Future salary 
increases and gratuity increases are based on 
expected future inflation rates for the respective 
countries. Further details about gratuity obligations 
are given in Note 30.
	
	
Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
	
	
The Group reviews the useful life of property, plant and 
equipment at the end of each reporting period. This 
reassessment may result in change in depreciation 
expense in future periods.
2.06 Revenue from contract with customer
	
Revenue is recognised when control of goods and services 
have been transferred to the customer; at an amount that 
reflects the consideration which the Group expects to be 
entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The timing of 
when the Group transfers the goods or provide services may 
differ from the timing of the customer’s payment. Amounts 
disclosed as revenue are net of goods and service tax (GST).
	
The Group has generally concluded that it is the principal in 
its revenue arrangements, because it typically controls the 
goods or services before transferring them to the customer.
	
Sale of Goods
	
The Group based on the underlying agreements has 
determined that the transfer of control to the customer and 
therefore revenue recognition, in regard to the domestic 
sales and export sales, generally corresponds to the date 
when the goods are dispatched from their point of sale, 
or when the goods are made available to the customer, or 
when the goods are released to the carrier responsible for 
transporting them to the customer.
	
Export sales are recorded at the relevant exchange rates 
prevailing on the transaction date.
	
Generally, the normal credit period is 30 to 60 days upon 
delivery for customers in India and 30 to 120 days for 
overseas customers.
	
Variable consideration
	
If the consideration in a contract includes a variable 
amount (like volume rebates/incentives, discounts etc.), 
the Group estimates the amount of consideration to 
which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the 
goods to the customer. The variable consideration is 
estimated at contract inception and constrained until it 
is highly probable that a significant revenue reversal in 
the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not 
occur when the associated uncertainty with the variable 
consideration is subsequently resolved. The estimate of 
variable consideration for expected future volume rebates/
incentives, cash discounts etc. are made on the most likely 
amount method. Revenue is disclosed net of such amounts.
	
Warranty obligations
	
The Group provides warranties for general repairs of 
defects as per terms of the contract with customers.  These 
warranties are considered as assurance type warranties and 
are accounted for under Ind AS 37- Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
	
Revenue from job work
	
The Group provides job work services to its customers. 
Such services are sold separately and are not bundled 
together with the sale of goods. Revenue from job work is 
accounted as and when such services are rendered.
	
Revenue from sale of services
	
The Group provides product development and engineering 
services to its customers. Revenue from such services is 
accounted as and when such services are rendered.
	
Revenue from sale of licences
	
Revenue from sale of licences is recognised based on the 
terms of the contract with customer. Revenue from one 
time licence fees is recognised over the period of licence.
	
Contract balances
	
Trade receivables
	
A receivable represents the Group’s right to an amount of 
consideration that is unconditional (i.e., only the passage 
of time is required before payment of the consideration 
is due). Refer to accounting policy no. 2.18 Financial 
instruments – Financial assets at amortised cost.
215 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
	
Contract liabilities / Advance from customers
	
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods to a 
customer for which the Group has received consideration 
(or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer. If 
a customer pays consideration before the Group transfers 
goods or services to the customer, a contract liability 
is recognised when the payment is received. Contract 
liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Group 
performs under the contract.
2.07 Leases
	
The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) 
a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at 
the inception of the lease. The arrangement is, or contains, 
a lease if fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on 
the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement 
conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right 
is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
	
Group as a lessee
	
The Group applies a single recognition and measurement 
approach for all leases above 12 months, except for short-
term leases and leases of low-value assets. The Group 
recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments and 
right-of-use assets representing the right to use the 
underlying assets.
	
Right-of-use assets
	
The 
Group 
recognises 
right-of-use 
assets 
at 
the 
commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the 
underlying asset is available for use). Right-of-use assets are 
measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement 
of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes 
the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct 
costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the 
commencement date less any lease incentives received. 
Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful 
lives of the assets.
	
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Group at 
the end of the lease term or the cost reflects the exercise 
of a purchase option, depreciation is calculated using the 
estimated useful life of the asset. The right-of-use assets 
are also subject to impairment. Refer to the accounting 
policy 2.17 (ii) for Impairment of non-financial assets.
	
Lease Liabilities
	
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group 
recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value 
of lease payments to be made over the lease term. The 
lease payments include fixed payments less any lease 
incentives receivable.
	
In calculating the present value of lease payments, 
the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate at the 
lease commencement date because the interest rate 
implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the 
commencement date, the amount of lease liabilities is 
increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced 
for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying 
amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a 
modification, a change in the lease term, a change in the 
lease payments or a change in the assessment of an option 
to purchase the underlying asset.
2.08 Foreign Currency and derivatives
	
The Group is exposed to certain risks relating to its ongoing 
business operations. The primary risks managed using 
derivative instruments are foreign currency risk, commodity 
price risk, and interest rate risk.
	
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at 
exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. 
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are 
translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the balance 
sheet date and exchange gains and losses arising on 
settlement or translation are recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss.
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-
monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency 
are translated using the exchange rates at the date when 
the fair value is determined. The gain or loss arising on 
translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value is 
treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the 
change in fair value of the item (i.e., translation differences 
on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in OCI 
or profit or loss are also recognised in OCI or profit or 
loss, respectively).
	
For the purpose of presenting these consolidated financial 
statements, the assets and liabilities of Group's foreign 
operations are translated to Indian Rupees at exchange 
rate at the end of each reporting period.
	
Assets and liabilities of entities with functional currency 
other than presentation currency have been translated to 
the presentation currency using exchange rates prevailing 
on the balance sheet date. Statement of profit and loss 
have been translated using average exchange rates. 
Translation adjustments have been reported as foreign 
currency translation reserve (FCTR) in the statement of 
changes in equity. When a foreign operation is disposed 
off, the relevant amount in the FCTR is reclassified to 
statement of profit and loss.
216  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
	
The functional currency and presentation currency 
of the Holding Company and Indian subsidiary is the 
Indian Rupee whereas the functional currency of foreign 
subsidiaries is the Euro.
	
In determining the spot exchange rate to use on initial 
recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or 
part of it) on the derecognition of a non-monetary asset or 
non-monetary liability relating to advance consideration, 
the date of the transaction is the date on which the 
Group initially recognises the non-monetary asset or non-
monetary liability arising from the advance consideration. 
If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the 
Group determines the transaction date for each payment 
or receipt of advance consideration.
	
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as 
foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge its foreign 
currency risks. Such derivative financial instruments are 
initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a 
derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-
measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as financial 
assets when the fair value is positive and as financial 
liabilities when the fair value is negative.
	
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of 
derivatives are taken directly to profit or loss. The foreign 
exchange forward contracts are not designated as cash flow 
hedges and are entered into for periods consistent with 
foreign currency exposure of the underlying transactions.
2.09 Borrowing Costs
	
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of qualifying assets, which are 
assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to 
get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as 
part of the cost of assets, until such time as the assets are 
substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
	
Interest income earned on the temporary investment 
of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on 
qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs 
eligible for capitalisation.
	
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss 
in the period in which they are incurred. Borrowing costs 
consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in 
connection with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost 
also includes exchange differences to the extent regarded 
as an adjustment to the borrowing costs.
2.10 Government grants and export incentives
	
(i)  	 Government grants
	
	
Government grants are recognised at their fair value 
where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant 
will be received and all attached conditions will be 
complied with. Government grants relating to income 
are recognised in the profit or loss over the periods 
necessary to match them with the costs that they are 
intended to compensate and presented within other 
operating revenues.
	
(ii) 	 Export benefits
	
	
Export benefits are accrued in the year of exports 
based on eligibility and when there is no uncertainty 
in receiving the same.
	
	
Export benefits in the nature of Remission of Duties 
and Taxes on Export Product (RODTEP) scheme and 
Duty Drawback are recognized on accrual basis in the 
year of export.
2.11 Employee benefits
	
1. 	 Defined Contribution Plan:
	
	
Provident Fund: The eligible employees of the 
Holding Company and its Indian Subsidiary are 
entitled to receive benefits under the provident fund, 
a defined contribution plan, in which both employees 
and the Company make monthly contributions at a 
specified percentage of the covered employee’s 
salary. The contributions as specified under the law 
are paid to the Central Government Provident Fund 
and the Family Pension Fund and the same is charged 
to the consolidated statement of profit and loss of 
the year when the contributions to the respective 
funds are due and when services are rendered 
by the employees.
	
2. 	 Defined Benefit Plan:
	
	
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of 
providing benefits is determined using the projected 
unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being 
carried out at the end of each annual reporting 
period. Remeasurement, comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses, the effect of the changes to the 
asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on plan 
assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in 
the balance sheet with a charge or credit recognised 
in other comprehensive income in the period in which 
they occur. Remeasurement recognised in other 
comprehensive income is reflected immediately in 
retained earnings and will not be reclassified to profit 
or loss in subsequent periods. Past service cost is 
recognised in profit or loss in the period of a plan 
amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying 
the discount rate at the beginning of the period to 
the net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined 
benefit costs are categorised as follows:
 
 
service cost (including current service cost, 
past service cost, as well as gains and losses on 
curtailments and settlements);
217 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
net 
interest 
expense 
or 
income; 
and remeasurement.
	
	
(i)	
Gratuity: The Holding Company and its Indian 
Subsidiary has an obligation towards gratuity, a 
defined benefit retirement plan covering eligible 
employees. The plan provides for a lump sum 
payment to vested employees at retirement, 
death while in employment or on termination of 
employment of an amount equivalent to 15/26 
days salary payable for each completed year of 
service. Vesting occurs upon completion of five 
years of service. For the employees of specified 
grades, 30 days salary is payable for each 
completed year of service, upon completion 
of 10 years of service. The Company accounts 
for the liability for gratuity benefits payable 
in future based on an independent actuarial 
valuation. The Company has taken a Group 
Gratuity cum Life Assurance Scheme with LIC 
of India for future payment of gratuity to the 
eligible employees.
	
	
(ii)	
Employees severance indemnity: Foreign 
subsidiaries 
give 
their 
employees 
post 
employment benefits. Such benefits fall within 
the defined benefit plans, of certain existence 
and amount, but with uncertain manifestation. 
The liability is determined as current value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet 
date, in accordance with current regulations, 
adjusted to take account of actuarial gains 
/ losses. The amount of the defined benefit 
obligation has been calculated by an external 
actuary according to the “Projected Unit 
Credit” method.
	
3. 	 Compensated Absences:
	
	
The Company provides for the encashment of 
compensated absences with pay subject to certain 
rules. The employees are entitled to accumulate 
compensated absences subject to certain limits, for 
future encashment. Such benefits are provided based 
on the number of days of unutilised compensated 
absence on the basis of an independent actuarial 
valuation using the projected unit credit method 
at the reporting date. Actuarial gains/losses are 
immediately taken to profit or loss and are not 
deferred. The Company has taken a policy with LIC 
of India for future payment of compensated absences 
encashment to its employees.
2.12 Taxes
	
Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and 
the net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during 
the year. Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in 
profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are 
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in 
equity, in which case, the current tax and deferred tax are 
also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly 
in equity, respectively. Income tax expense represents the 
sum of current tax and deferred tax.
	
Current income tax:
	
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured 
at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to 
tax authorities.
	
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount 
are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the 
reporting date in the countries where the Group operates 
and generates taxable income.
	
Current income tax relating to items recognised outside 
profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in 
other comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax items 
are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction 
either in OCI or directly in equity. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to 
situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to 
interpretation and considers whether it is probable that the 
taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment.
	
The Group shall reflect the effect of uncertainty for each 
uncertain tax treatment by using either most likely method 
or expected value method depending on which method 
predicts better resolution of the treatment.
	
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are 
presented in the balance sheet after off-setting advance 
tax paid and income tax provision arising in the same tax 
jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying units intends 
to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.
	
Deferred taxes:
	
Deferred tax is recognised using liability method. Deferred 
tax assets and liabilities are recognised for deductible and 
taxable temporary differences arising between the tax base 
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount, except 
when the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of 
goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not 
a business combination and affects neither accounting nor 
taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profit will be available against which 
the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward 
of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at 
each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available 
to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
	
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences except in respect of taxable 
218  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
temporary 
differences 
associated 
with 
investments 
in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable 
that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using 
substantively enacted tax rates in the countries where the 
group operates expected to apply to taxable income in the 
years in which the temporary differences are expected to 
be received or settled.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority 
and the relevant entity intends and has ability to settle its 
current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
	
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each 
reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has 
become probable that future taxable profits will allow the 
deferred tax assets to be recovered.
2.13 Property, plant and equipment
	
Capital work in progress is stated at cost, net of accumulated 
impairment loss, if any. Property, plant and equipment are 
stated at cost of acquisition or construction where cost 
includes amount added/deducted on revaluation less 
accumulated depreciation / amortization and impairment 
losses, if any. All costs directly relating to the acquisition and 
installation of assets  are  capitalized  and  include  borrowing 
costs  relating  to  funds attributable to construction or 
acquisition of qualifying assets, up to the date the asset / 
plant is ready for intended use. The cost of replacing a part 
of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognized 
in the carrying amount of the item of property, plant and 
equipment, if it is probable that the future economic benefits 
embodies within the part will flow to the Group and its cost 
can be measured reliably with the carrying amount of the 
replaced part getting derecognized. The cost for day-to-day 
servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognized in 
Statement of Profit and Loss as and when incurred.
	
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is provided 
at the rates determined on a straight line basis over the 
useful life estimated by the Management or on the basis of 
depreciation rates prescribed under respective domestic laws, 
whichever is higher.
	
The useful lives and method of depreciation of the Property, 
plant & equipment are reviewed at the end of each reporting 
period, with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted 
for on a prospective basis.
	
An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant 
part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or 
when no future economic benefits are expected from its use 
or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the 
asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in 
the statement of profit and loss when the asset is derecognised.
2.14 Intangible Assets
	
Intangible assets acquired separately:
	
Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired 
separately are carried at cost less accumulated amortization 
and accumulated impairment losses. Amortization is 
recognised on a straight-line basis over their estimated 
useful lives. The estimated useful life and amortization 
method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, 
with the effect of any changes in estimate being accounted 
for on a prospective basis.
	
i)	
Technical knowhow is amortised over a period of 
five to ten years;
	
ii) 	
Software is amortised over a period of three years.
	
iii) 	
Patents, Trade Marks and Brands are amortised over a 
period of five to ten years.
	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives that are acquired 
separately are carried at cost less accumulated impairment 
losses. Internally generated intangible assets, excluding 
capitalized development cost, are not capitalized and the 
related expenditure is reflected in statement of profit and 
loss in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
	
An intangible asset is derecognised upon disposal (i.e., 
at the date the recipient obtains control) or when no 
future economic benefits are expected from its use or 
disposal. Any gain or loss arising upon derecognition of 
the asset (calculated as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is 
included in the statement of profit and loss. when the asset 
is derecognised.
2.15 Non-current assets held for sale
	
The Group classifies non-current assets as held for sale if 
their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through 
a sale rather than through continuing use. Management 
must be committed to the sale expected within one year 
from the date of classification.
	
The criteria for held for sale classification is regarded met 
only when the assets are available for immediate sale in 
its present condition, subject only to terms that are usual 
and customary for sales of such assets, its sale is highly 
probable; and it will genuinely be sold, not abandoned. 
Actions required to complete the sale should indicate 
that it is unlikely that significant changes to the sale will 
be made or that the decision to sell will be withdrawn. The 
Group treats sale of the asset to be highly probable when:
219 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
The appropriate level of management is committed 
to a plan to sell the asset,
 
 
An active programme to locate a buyer and complete 
the plan has been initiated,
 
 
The asset is being actively marketed for sale at a price 
that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value,
 
 
The sale is expected to qualify for recognition as a 
completed sale within one year from the date of 
classification, and
	
• 	
Actions required to complete the plan indicate that it 
is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be 
made or that the plan will be withdrawn.
	
Non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower 
of their carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell.
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once 
classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortised.
	
Additional disclosures are provided in Note 3.
2.16 Impairment of financial and non financial assets
	
(i) 	
Financial assets
	
	
The impairment methodology applied depends on 
whether there has been a significant increase in credit 
risk and if so, assess the need to provide for the same 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition 
of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables. 
The application of simplified approach does not 
require the Group to track changes in credit risk. 
Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance 
based on lifetime expected credit losses (ECL) at 
each reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
	
	
For recognition of impairment loss on other financial 
assets and risk exposure, the Group determines 
whether there has been a significant increase in the 
credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has 
not increased significantly, 12-month ECL is used to 
provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk 
has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If, in 
a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument 
improves such that there is no longer a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then 
the entity reverts to recognising impairment loss 
allowance based on 12-month  ECL.
	
	
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting 
from all possible default events over the expected 
life of a financial instrument. The 12-month ECL is a 
portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default 
events that are possible within 12 months after the 
reporting date.
	
	
ECL is the difference between all contractual cash 
flows that are due to the Group in accordance with the 
contract and all the cash flows that the entity expects 
to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at the 
original effective interest rate (EIR). When estimating 
the cash flows, an entity is required to consider all 
contractual terms of the financial instrument over the 
expected life of the financial instrument.
	
	
The Group estimates the following provision matrix at 
the reporting date:
Not due
Not 
due
Within 
365 
days*
More than
365 days*
Default Rate
0%
0%
100%
	
	
* Provision is made for receivables where recovery is considered 
doubtful irrespective of due date. Where an amount is 
outstanding for more than 365 days the Group usually provides 
for the same unless there is clear visibility of recovery.
	
	
ECL 
impairment 
loss 
allowance 
(or 
reversal) 
recognized 
during 
the 
period 
is 
recognized 
as income/ expense in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss. This amount is reflected under the 
head ‘other expenses’ in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss. The balance sheet presentation for 
various financial instruments is described below: 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost, revenue 
receivables and lease receivables: ECL is presented 
as an allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the 
measurement of those assets in the balance sheet. 
The allowance reduces the net carrying amount. Until 
the asset meets write-off criteria, the Group does 
not reduce impairment allowance from the gross 
carrying amount.
	
	
For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment 
loss, the Group combines financial instruments based 
on shared credit risk characteristics with the objective 
of facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable 
significant increases in credit risk to be identified on 
a timely basis.
	
(ii) 	 Non-financial assets
	
	
The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether 
there is any indication that the carrying amount of non 
financial asset may not be recoverable. If any such 
indication exists, or when annual impairment testing 
for an asset is required, the recoverable amount, (i.e. 
higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-
use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless 
the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, 
the recoverable amount is determined for the cash 
generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs. 
220  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is 
estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the 
carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced 
to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is 
recognized in the statement of profit or loss. The 
Group bases its impairment calculation on budgets 
and forecast calculations.
	
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using 
a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value 
less costs of disposal, an appropriate valuation 
model is used. 
	
(iii) 	 Goodwill
	
	
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested 
for impairment annually, or more frequently when 
there is indication for impairment. If the recoverable 
amount of a CGU is less than its carrying amount, 
the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU 
unit and then to the other assets of the CGU unit pro-
rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset 
in the CGU unit.
2.17 Inventories
	
Inventories of raw materials and components, work-in-
progress, stock-in-trade, stores & spares, packing materials 
and loose tools & instruments are valued at the lower of 
cost and net realizable value. Cost is ascertained on a 
weighted average basis. Costs incurred in bringing each 
product to its present location and condition are accounted 
for as follows:
	
a.	
Raw materials, stores & spares and tools & 
instruments: cost includes cost of purchase and other 
costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition.
	
b.	
Finished goods and work in progress: cost includes 
cost of direct materials, labour and a proportion 
of manufacturing overheads based on the normal 
operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
	
c.	
Traded goods: cost includes cost of purchase and 
other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to 
their present location and condition.
	
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in 
the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs 
of completion and the estimated costs necessary 
to make the sale.
2.18 Financial Instruments
	
(i)  	 Financial assets
	
	
a) 	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
	
Financial 
assets 
are 
classified, 
at 
initial 
recognition, as subsequently measured at 
amortised cost, fair value through other 
comprehensive income (OCI), and fair value 
through profit or loss.
	
	
	
The classification of financial assets at initial 
recognition depends on the financial asset’s 
contractual cash flow characteristics and the 
Group’s business model for managing them. 
With the exception of trade receivables that do 
not contain a significant financing component 
or for which the Group has applied the practical 
expedient, the Group initially measures a 
financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of 
a financial asset not at fair value through profit or 
loss, transaction costs. Trade receivables that do 
not contain a significant financing component 
or for which the Group has applied the practical 
expedient are measured at the transaction price 
determined under Ind AS 115. Refer to the 
accounting policies in section (2.06) Revenue 
from contracts with customers.
	
	
	
In order for a financial asset to be classified and 
measured at amortised cost or fair value through 
OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are 
‘solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI)’ 
on the principal amount outstanding. This 
assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and 
is performed at an instrument level. Financial 
assets with cash flows that are not SPPI are 
classified and measured at fair value through 
profit or loss, irrespective of the business model.
	
	
	
The Group’s business model for managing 
financial assets refers to how it manages its 
financial assets in order to generate cash flows. 
The business model determines whether cash 
flows will result from collecting contractual 
cash flows, selling the financial assets, or both. 
Financial assets classified and measured at 
amortised cost are held within a business model 
with the objective to hold financial assets in 
order to collect contractual cash flows while 
financial assets classified and measured at fair 
value through OCI are held within a business 
model with the objective of both holding to 
collect contractual cash flows and selling.
	
	
	
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require 
delivery of assets within a time frame established 
by regulation or convention in the marketplace 
221 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
(regular way trades) are recognised on the trade 
date, i.e., the date that the Group commits to 
purchase or sell the asset.
	
	
b) 	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, 
financial assets are classified in four categories:
 
 
Financial 
assets 
at 
amortised 
cost 
(debt instruments)
 
 
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVTOCI) with 
recycling of cumulative gains and losses 
(debt instruments)
 
 
Financial assets designated at fair value 
through OCI with no recycling of cumulative 
gains and losses upon derecognition 
(equity instruments)
 
 
Financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss	
	
	
	
	
	
	
b	
(i) 	
Financial assets at amortised cost (debt 
instruments)
	
	
	
	
A ‘financial asset’ is measured at the 
amortised cost if both the following 
conditions are met:
	
	
	
a)	
The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for 
collecting contractual cash flows, and
	
	
	
b)	
Contractual terms of the asset give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (SPPI) 
on the principal amount outstanding.
	
	
	
	
This category is the most relevant to the 
Group. After initial measurement, such 
financial assets are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost 
is calculated by taking into account any 
discount or premium on acquisition and 
fees or costs that are an integral part of 
the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included 
in finance income in the profit or loss. 
The losses arising from impairment are 
recognised in the profit or loss. The Group’s 
financial assets at amortised cost includes 
trade receivables, and loan to an associate 
and loan to a director included under other 
non-current financial assets. For more 
information on receivables, refer to Note 8.
	
	
b	
(ii)	
Financial assets at fair value through OCI 
(FVTOCI) (debt instruments)
	
	
	
	
A ‘financial asset’ is classified as at 
the FVTOCI if both of the following 
criteria are met:
	
	
	
	
a)	
The objective of the business model 
is 
achieved 
both 
by 
collecting 
contractual cash flows and selling the 
financial assets, and
	
	
	
	
b) 	
The asset’s contractual cash flows 
represent SPPI.
	
	
	
	
	
Debt instruments included within 
the FVTOCI category are measured 
initially as well as at each reporting 
date at fair value. For debt instruments, 
at fair value through OCI, interest 
income, foreign exchange revaluation 
and impairment losses or reversals 
are recognised in the profit or loss 
and computed in the same manner 
as for financial assets measured at 
amortised cost. The remaining fair 
value changes are recognised in OCI. 
Upon derecognition, the cumulative 
fair value changes recognised in 
OCI is reclassified from the equity to 
profit or loss. 
	
	
b	
(iii) 	 Financial assets designated at fair value 
through OCI (equity instruments)
	
	
	
	
Upon initial recognition, the Group can 
elect to classify irrevocably its equity 
investments 
as 
equity 
instruments 
designated at fair value through OCI 
when they meet the definition of equity 
under Ind AS 32 Financial Instruments: 
Presentation and are not held for trading. 
The classification is determined on an 
instrument-by-instrument 
basis. 
Equity 
instruments which are held for trading and 
contingent consideration recognised by an 
acquirer in a business combination to which 
Ind AS103 applies are classified as at FVTPL.
	
	
	
	
Gains and losses on these financial 
assets are never recycled to profit or loss. 
Dividends are recognised as other income 
in the statement of profit and loss when 
the right of payment has been established, 
except when the Group benefits from such 
proceeds as a recovery of part of the cost of 
222  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
the financial asset, in which case, such gains 
are recorded in OCI. Equity instruments 
designated at fair value through OCI are 
not subject to impairment assessment. 
	
	
b	
(iv)	 Financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss
	
	
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss are carried in the balance 
sheet at fair value with net changes in 
fair value recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss.
	
	
	
	
This 
category 
includes 
derivative 
instruments and equity investments which 
the Group had not irrevocably elected to 
classify at fair value through OCI. Dividends 
on equity investments are recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss when the 
right of payment has been established.
	
	
	
	
Financial liabilities
	
	
	
	
Financial liabilities are classified at initial 
recognition as financial liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss, loans and 
borrowings, payables or as derivatives 
designated as hedging instruments in 
an effective hedge, as appropriate. All 
financial liabilities are recognised initially 
at fair value and in case of loans and 
borrowings and payables, net of directly 
attributable transaction costs. The Group's 
financial liabilities include trade and other 
payables, loans and borrowings, and 
derivative financial instruments. Trade, 
other payables and derivative financial 
instruments are measured subsequently 
at FVTPL. Loans and borrowings are 
subsequently 
measured 
at 
amortised 
costs using EIR method. Amortised cost 
is calculated by taking into account any 
discount or premium on acquisition an fees 
or costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
	
	
	
	
Equity instruments
	
	
	
	
All equity instruments in scope of Ind AS 109, 
other than investments in subsidiaries, are 
measured at fair value. Equity instruments 
which are held for trading are classified as 
at fair value through profit and loss. For all 
other equity instruments the Group may 
make an irrevocable election to present in 
other comprehensive income, subsequent 
changes in the fair value. The Group 
makes such election on an instrument by 
instrument basis. The classification is done 
on initial recognition and is irrevocable. 
If the Group decides to classify an equity 
instruments as at FVOCI then all fair value 
changes on the instrument excluding 
dividends are recognised in OCI. There is 
no recycling from OCI to profit or loss even 
on sale of instrument. However, the Group 
may transfer the cumulative gain/loss 
within equity. Equity instruments included 
within the FVTPL category are measured 
at fair value with all changes recognised in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
	
	
Derecognition
	
	
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a 
part of a financial asset or part of a Group 
of similar financial assets) is primarily 
derecognised (i.e. removed from the 
Group’s balance sheet) when:
	
	
	
	
a.	
The rights to receive cash flows from 
the asset have expired, or
	
	
	
	
b.	
The Group has transferred its rights 
to receive cash flows from the asset 
or has assumed an obligation to pay 
the received cash flows in full without 
material delay to a third party under 
a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and 
either (a) the Group has transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards 
of the asset, or (b) the Group has 
neither 
transferred 
nor 
retained 
substantially all the risks and rewards 
of the asset, but has transferred 
control of the asset.
	
	
	
	
When the Group has transferred its rights 
to receive cash flows from an asset or has 
entered into a pass-through arrangement, 
it evaluates if and to what extent it has 
retained the risks and rewards of ownership. 
When it has neither transferred nor retained 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
the asset, nor transferred control of the 
asset, the Group continues to recognise 
the transferred asset to the extent of 
the Group’s continuing involvement. In 
that case, the Group also recognises an 
associated liability. The transferred asset 
and the associated liability are measured 
on a basis that reflects the rights and 
obligations that the Group has retained.
	
	
	
	
Continuing involvement that takes the 
form of a guarantee over the transferred 
asset is measured at the lower of the 
223 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
original carrying amount of the asset and 
the maximum amount of consideration 
that the Group could be required to repay.
	
	
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged 
or cancelled or expires. When an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another from 
the same lender on substantially different 
terms, or the terms of an existing liability are 
substantially modified, such an exchange or 
modification is treated as the derecognition 
of the original liability and the recognition 
of a new liability. The difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
	
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities 
are offset and the net amount is reported 
in the Balance Sheet if there is currently 
enforceable legal right to offset the 
recognised amounts and there is an 
intention to settle on a net basis, to 
realize the assets and settle the liabilities 
simultaneously.
	
	
	
	
Hedge accounting
	
	
	
	
The Group uses interest rate swaps to 
hedge variability in its cash flows from 
interest payments arising from floating 
rate liabilities i.e., when interests are 
paid according to benchmark market 
interest rates.
	
	
	
	
The Group also uses commodity swaps 
to hedge variability in its cash flows from 
changes in commodity prices,  primarily 
electricity and fuel. Changes in the price of 
these commodities could have a significant 
effect on the Group’s results by affecting 
costs and thereby, product margins.
	
	
	
	
Such derivative financial instruments are 
initially recognised at fair value on the 
date on which a derivative contract is 
entered into and are subsequently re-
measured at fair value. Derivatives are 
carried as financial assets when the fair 
value is positive and as financial liabilities 
when the fair value is negative. The full fair 
value of a hedging derivative is classified 
as a non-current asset or liability when the 
remaining maturity of the hedged item is 
more than twelve months; it is classified 
as a current asset or liability when the 
remaining maturity of the hedged item is 
less than or equal to twelve months.
	
	
	
	
At the inception of the hedge relationship, 
the 
Group 
formally 
designates 
and 
documents the economic relationship 
between the hedging instrument and the 
hedged item, including whether changes 
in the cash flows of the hedging instrument 
are expected to offset changes in the cash 
flows of the hedged item. The Group 
documents its risk management objective 
and how the Group will assess whether 
the hedging relationship meets the hedge 
effectiveness requirements (including the 
analysis of sources of hedge ineffectiveness 
and how the hedge ratio is determined). 
Hedges that meet the strict criteria for 
hedge accounting are accounted for as 
cash flow hedges.
	
	
	
	
Changes in the fair value (net of tax) of the 
derivative contracts that are designated 
and effective as hedges of future cash flows 
are recognised in the cash flow hedge 
reserve 
within 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income 
(OCI), 
and 
any 
ineffective 
portion is recognised immediately in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss.
	
	
	
	
Amounts so recognised in OCI are later 
reclassified to profit or loss when the 
hedge item affects profit or loss or are 
treated as basis adjustment if a hedged 
forecast transaction subsequently results in 
the recognition of a non-financial asset or 
non-financial liability.
	
	
	
	
Hedge accounting is discontinued when 
the hedging instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated, or exercised, or no longer 
qualifies for hedge accounting. Amounts 
accumulated in Other Equity through 
OCI are reclassified to the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss in the periods 
in which the forecast transactions affect 
profit or loss.
	
	
	
	
For forecast transactions, any cumulative 
gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
recognised in Other Equity is retained 
there until the forecast transaction occurs. 
If the forecast transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the net cumulative 
gain or loss recognised in Other Equity is 
immediately reclassified to profit or loss for 
the year as a reclassification adjustment.
224  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
2.19 Earning per share (EPS)
	
Basic and diluted earnings per share is reported in 
accordance with Ind AS 33 - Earnings per Share. Basic 
earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit 
or loss attributable to equity holders after deducting 
attributable taxes for the period by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the period. 
Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing the 
net profit or loss for the period by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the period 
as adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity 
shares except where the results are anti-dilutive.
2.20 Research and development expenses
	
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development 
expenditures on an individual project are recognised as an 
intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate:
 
 
The technical feasibility of completing the intangible 
asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale
 
 
Its intention to complete and its ability and intention 
to use or sell the asset
 
 
How the asset will generate future economic benefits
 
 
The availability of resources to complete the asset
 
 
The ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
during development
	
Following 
initial 
recognition 
of 
the 
development 
expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment 
losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development 
is complete, and the asset is available for use. It is amortised 
over the period of expected future benefit. Amortisation 
expense is recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value of 
another asset. During the period of development, the asset 
is tested for impairment annually.
2.21 Segment reporting
	
Information reported to the Chief Operating Decision 
Maker (CODM) for the purposes of resource allocation and 
assessment of segment performance focuses on the types 
of goods or services delivered or provided. The Group 
is in the business of manufacture and sale of automobile 
components, which in the context of Indian Accounting 
Standard 108 'Segment Information' represents single 
reportable business segment. The accounting policies of 
the reportable segments are the same as the accounting 
policies disclosed in Note 2. The revenues, total expenses 
and net profit as per the Statement of profit and loss 
represents the revenue, total expenses and the net profit 
of the sole reportable segment.
2.22 Current versus Non-Current Classification
	
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the balance 
sheet based on current/ non-current classification. An asset 
is treated as current when it is:
 
 
expected to be realized or intended to be sold or 
consumed in normal operating cycle
 
 
held primarily for the purpose of trading
 
 
expected to be realized within 12 months after the 
date of reporting period, or
 
 
Cash and cash equivalent unless restricted from being 
exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 12 
months after reporting period.
	
Current assets include the current portion of non-current 
financial assets.
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
A liability is current when it is:
 
 
 expected to be settled in normal operating cycle
 
 
 held primarily for the purpose of trading
 
 
due to be settled within 12 months after the 
reporting period, or
 
 
does not have any unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after 
the reporting period.
	
Current liabilities include the current portion of long term 
financial liabilities. The Group classifies all other liabilities 
as non-current.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-
current assets and liabilities.
	
The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition of 
assets and their realization in cash and cash equivalents. 
The Group has identified 12 months as its operating cycle.
2.23 Cash and cash equivalents
	
The Group considers all highly liquid financial instruments, 
which are readily convertible into known amounts of 
cash that are subject to an insignificant risk of change in 
value and having original maturities of three months or 
less, to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents 
include balances with banks which are unrestricted for 
withdrawal and usage.
225 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
2.24 Share Capital
	
Ordinary Shares
	
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental 
costs, if any, directly attributable to the issue of ordinary 
shares are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of 
any tax effects.
2.25 Fair Value Measurement
	
The Group measures financial instruments, such as, 
derivatives at fair value at each balance sheet date. Fair 
value is the price that would be received from the sale of an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. 
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption 
that the transaction to sell an asset or transfer the liability 
takes place either:
 
 
In the principal market for the asset or liability
 
 
In the absence of principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability.
	
The principal or the most advantageous market must be 
accessible by the Group.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using 
the assumptions that market participants would use 
when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market 
participants act in their economic best interest.
	
The fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes 
into account a market participant’s ability to generate 
economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and 
best use or by selling it to another market participant 
that would use the asset in its highest and best use. 
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate 
in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are 
available to measure fair value, maximizing the use of 
relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use of 
unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured 
or disclosed in the financial statements are categorized 
within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based 
on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole:
 
 
Level 1 – Quoted (Unadjusted) Market prices in active 
markets for incidental assets or liabilities
 
 
Level 2 –Valuation techniques for which the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable
 
 
Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is unobservable
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the 
financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group 
determines whether transfers that have occurred between 
levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorization 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each 
reporting period.
	
Other disclosures
	
1) 	
There are no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of 
the fair value hierarchy during the period.
	
2) 	
The valuation techniques used above are consistent 
with all periods presented.
	
Valuation Techniques used to determine fair value
	
1) 	
Investments in Mutual Funds - are valued at net asset 
value declared by Association of Mutual Funds in 
India (AMFI) at the reporting date.
	
2) 	
Derivatives (recurring fair value measurement) - at 
values determined by counter parties / banks using 
market observable data.
	
3) 	
Investments in bonds and other funds - are valued at 
value declared by Asset management company at the 
reporting date.
2.26 Dividend
	
Dividend on share is recorded as liability on the date of 
approval by the shareholders. A corresponding amount is 
recognized directly in equity.
2.27 Provisions and contingent liabilities
	
A provision is recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of past event 
and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be 
required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a 
reliable estimate can be made. The expense relating to a 
provision is presented in the statement of profit and loss 
net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value 
of money is material, provisions are discounted using a 
current pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the 
risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, 
the increase in the provision due to the passage of time 
is recognised as a finance cost. Provisions are reviewed 
at each balance sheet date adjusted to reflect the current 
best estimates. Contingent liabilities are not recognised in 
the financial statements.
	
Product warranty expenses
	
The 
estimated 
liability 
for 
product 
warranties 
is 
accounted when products are sold. These estimates 
are established using historical information on the 
nature, frequency and average cost of warranty claims 
226  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
and management estimates regarding possible future 
incidence based on corrective actions on product failures. 
The initial estimate of warranty related cost is revised at 
each balance sheet date.
2.28 Other income
	
Interest income
	
Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when 
it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the 
Group and the amount of income can be measured reliably. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference 
to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest 
rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash receipts through the expected life 
of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount on 
initial recognition.
	
Others
	
The Group recognizes income on accrual basis. However, 
where the ultimate collection of the same lacks reasonable 
certainty, income recognition is postponed to the extent 
income is reasonably certain and can be reliably measured.
 2.29 Recent accounting pronouncements
	
Standards issued but not yet effective
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards. There 
is no such notification which would have been applicable 
from 1st April, 2024.
2.30 New and amended standards
	
The Group applied for the first-time certain standards 
and amendments, which are effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1st April, 2024. The Group has not 
early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment 
that has been issued but is not yet effective.
	
(i) 	 Ind AS 117 Insurance Contracts
	
	
The Ministry of corporate Affairs (MCA) notified the 
Ind AS 117, Insurance Contracts, vide notification 
dated 12 August 2024, under the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2024, 
which is effective from annual reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1st April, 2024.
	
	
The application of Ind AS 117 had no impact on the 
Group’s consolidated financial statements as the 
Group has not entered any contracts in the nature of 
insurance contracts covered under Ind AS 117.
	
(ii) 	 Amendment to Ind AS 116 Leases – Lease 
Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
	
	
The MCA notified the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Second Amendment Rules, 2024, which 
amend Ind AS 116, Leases, with respect to Lease 
Liability in a Sale and Leaseback.
	
	
The amendment specifies the requirements that 
a seller-lessee uses in measuring the lease liability 
arising in a sale and leaseback transaction, to ensure 
the seller-lessee does not recognise any amount of 
the gain or loss that relates to the right of use it retains. 
The amendment is effective for annual reporting 
periods beginning on or after 1st April, 2024 
and must be applied retrospectively to sale 
and leaseback transactions entered into after 
the date of initial application of Ind AS 116. 
The amendment does not have a material impact on 
the Group’s financial statements.
227 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements
3 Property, plant and equipment and Intangible Assets
H in million
Particulars
Gross Block
Depreciation/Amortisation
Net Block
As at 1st 
April, 2024
Transferred 
to assets 
classified 
as held for 
sale
Additions on 
Acquisition
(Refer note 26)
Additions 
during 
the year
Deductions 
during the 
year
Translation 
Adjustment
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 1st 
April, 2024
Transferred 
to assets 
classified as 
held for sale
For the 
year
Deductions 
during the 
year
Translation 
Adjustment
As at 31st 
March, 
2025
As at 31st 
March, 2025
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g) = 
(a+b+c+d-e+f)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)
(m) = 
(h+i+j-k+l)
(n) = (g-m)
(I) 	 Property, plant and 
equipments (at cost)
	
Freehold Land
947.36 
        - 
        - 
14.27 
    - 
23.77
   985.40 
          - 
    - 
    - 
    - 
    - 
        - 
  985.40 
	
(991.54)
 (-52.59) 
        - 
- 
- 
(8.41)
(947.36)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(947.36)
	
Buildings
8,777.82 
        - 
40.51 
1,016.20 
  8.87 
119.20
9,944.86 
2,459.61 
    - 
358.93 
  2.00 
44.26
2,860.80 
7,084.06 
(8,182.34)
 (-85.31) 
- 
(642.27)
- 
(38.52)
(8,777.82)
(2,097.39)
 (-32.26) 
(381.58)
- 
(12.90)
(2,459.61)
(6,318.21)
	
Plant and equipments 
45,559.68 
        - 
    1.91 
7,966.63 
1,117.11 
691.39
53,102.50 
24,662.32 
    - 
4,295.44 
829.90 
381.65
28,509.51 
24,592.99 
(37,505.30)
 (-1.80) 
- 
(8,534.24)
(660.70)
(182.64)
(45,559.68)
(21,464.05)
 (-1.76) 
(3,673.90)
(588.28)
(114.41)
(24,662.32)
(20,897.36)
	
Renewable energy 
generators
173.67 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
173.67 
63.79 
- 
6.79 
- 
- 
70.58 
103.09 
(173.67)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(173.67)
(57.01)
    - 
(6.78)
    - 
    - 
 (63.79)
 (109.88)
	
Computer
 491.45 
        - 
   4.16 
68.25 
10.69 
4.12
   557.29 
  344.99 
    - 
79.19 
   9.71 
3.09
 417.56 
   139.73 
(417.90)
 (-0.01) 
        - 
(89.07)
(16.80)
 (1.29)
  (491.45)
 (298.15)
 (-0.01) 
(62.39)
(16.46)
(0.92)
(344.99)
 (146.46)
	
Electrical fittings
 148.93 
        - 
        - 
  5.20 
  0.64 
    - 
153.49 
 75.75 
    - 
13.96 
  0.66 
    - 
   89.05 
 64.44 
(132.02)
        - 
        - 
(20.84)
(3.93)
    - 
  (148.93)
   (65.39)
    - 
(12.58)
(2.22)
    - 
 (75.75)
(73.18)
	
Vehicles
 351.75 
        - 
  0.74 
120.87 
22.77 
2.39
   452.98 
   210.62 
    - 
53.90 
21.20 
1.68
245.00 
  207.98 
(307.61)
        - 
        - 
(60.50)
(17.05)
(0.69)
  (351.75)
 (174.84)
    - 
(48.15)
(12.86)
(0.49)
(210.62)
   (141.13)
	
Furniture and fixtures
 571.55 
        - 
  3.04 
104.71 
  2.49 
10.61
   687.42 
  339.23 
    - 
56.44 
  3.06 
6.52
 399.13 
  288.29 
(518.25)
 (-0.14) 
        - 
(58.02)
(7.74)
 (3.16)
  (571.55)
(286.70)
 (-0.09) 
(56.29)
(5.48)
  (1.81)
(339.23)
(232.32)
	
Office equipments
243.00 
        - 
        - 
33.68 
  9.92 
0.04
   266.80 
   185.79 
    - 
22.24 
  9.98 
0.02
 198.07 
 68.73 
(223.17)
        - 
        - 
(23.51)
(3.69)
 (0.01)
 (243.00)
  (165.14)
    - 
(24.29)
(3.65)
 (0.01)
(185.79)
(57.21)
	
Total - I
57,265.21 
- 
50.36 
9,329.81 
1,172.49 
851.52 
66,324.41 
28,342.10 
- 
4,886.89 
876.51 
437.22 
32,789.70 
33,534.71 
	
Previous year as at 
31st March, 2024
(48,451.80)
 (-139.85) 
- 
(9,428.45)
(709.91)
     (234.72)
(57,265.21)
(24,608.67)
 (-34.12) 
(4,265.96)
(628.95)
(130.54)
(28,342.10)
(28,923.11)
(II)	 Right of Use Assets:
	
Leasehold Land 
2,139.67 
        - 
87.33 
    - 
    - 
2,227.00 
   127.59 
    - 
26.68 
    - 
    - 
 154.27 
2,072.73 
(2,139.67)
- 
- 
- 
- 
    - 
(2,139.67)
  (101.50)
    - 
(26.09)
    - 
    - 
(127.59)
(2,012.08)
	
Buildings
 534.18 
        - 
196.73 
  4.06 
10.64
   737.49 
  246.80 
    - 
76.35 
  0.56 
5.64
328.23 
  409.26 
(456.59)
        - 
        - 
(74.36)
    - 
(3.24)
  (534.18)
  (181.45)
    - 
(63.89)
    - 
 (1.46)
(246.80)
(287.38)
	
Plant and Machinery
 491.70 
        - 
    - 
   1.66 
13.57
503.61 
   421.03 
    - 
14.74 
    - 
11.92
447.69 
 55.92 
(490.64)
        - 
        - 
    - 
(3.83)
(4.90)
  (491.70)
(389.08)
    - 
(28.00)
    - 
(3.95)
(421.03)
   (70.67)
	
Vehicles
284.83 
        - 
43.00 
    - 
8.69
   336.52 
   241.54 
    - 
35.71 
    - 
7.35
284.60 
  51.93 
(277.14)
        - 
        - 
 (4.91)
    - 
(2.78)
 (284.83)
 (188.33)
    - 
(51.22)
    - 
 (1.99)
(241.54)
   (43.30)
	
Total - II
3,450.38 
- 
- 
327.06 
5.72 
32.90 
3,804.62 
1,036.95 
- 
153.48 
0.56 
24.91 
1,214.78 
2,589.84 
	
Previous year as at 
31st March, 2024
(3,364.03)
- 
- 
(79.27)
          (3.83)
(10.91)
(3,450.38)
(860.36)
                - 
(169.20)
                - 
          (7.40)
(1,036.95)
(2,413.43)
	
Total - (I+II)
60,715.59 
- 
50.36 
9,656.87 
1,178.21 
884.42 
70,129.03 
29,379.06 
- 
5,040.37 
877.07 
462.13 
34,004.48 
36,124.55 
	
Previous year as at 
31st March, 2024
(51,815.83)
 (-139.85) 
- 
(9,507.72)
      (713.74)
     (245.63)
(60,715.59)
(25,469.04)
 (-34.12) 
(4,435.16)
     (628.95)
      (137.94)
(29,379.05)
(31,336.54)
228  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
H in million
Particulars
Gross Block
Depreciation/Amortisation
Net Block
As at 1st 
April, 2024
Transferred 
to assets 
classified 
as held for 
sale
Additions on 
Acquisition
(Refer note 26)
Additions 
during 
the year
Deductions 
during the 
year
Translation 
Adjustment
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 1st 
April, 2024
Transferred 
to assets 
classified as 
held for sale
For the 
year
Deductions 
during the 
year
Translation 
Adjustment
As at 31st 
March, 
2025
As at 31st 
March, 2025
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g) = 
(a+b+c+d-e+f)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)
(m) = 
(h+i+j-k+l)
(n) = (g-m)
(III)	 INTANGIBLE 
ASSETS
	
Technical know-how
1,753.00 
 128.48 
172.06 
    - 
29.76
2,083.30 
   884.15 
-
260.40 
    - 
20.65
1,165.20 
918.10 
(1,615.09)
        - 
        - 
(129.18)
    - 
(8.73)
(1,753.00)
(659.56)
- 
(219.08)
    - 
 (5.51)
(884.15)
(868.85)
	
Patents, Trade Marks 
and License
 289.16 
        - 
  0.56 
    - 
8.01
   297.73 
   182.43 
- 
46.08 
   0.14 
5.91
234.28 
 63.45 
(285.96)
        - 
        - 
(0.42)
(0.08)
(2.86)
  (289.16)
 (134.95)
    - 
(46.12)
(0.08)
 (1.44)
(182.43)
 (106.73)
	
Software
357.84 
   3.01 
40.78 
  7.30 
3.19
   397.52 
  290.54 
    - 
40.20 
  5.83 
2.36
327.27 
 70.25 
(325.81)
        - 
        - 
(31.55)
(0.46)
(0.94)
 (357.84)
(250.73)
    - 
(39.57)
(0.45)
(0.69)
(290.54)
   (67.30)
	
Total - III
2,400.00 
- 
131.49 
213.40 
7.30 
40.96 
2,778.55 
1,357.12 
- 
346.68 
5.97 
28.92 
1,726.75 
1,051.80 
	
Previous year as at 
31st March, 2024
(2,226.86)
- 
- 
(161.15)
(0.54)
(12.53)
(2,400.00)
(1,045.24)
- 
(304.77)
          (0.53)
          (7.64)
      (1,357.12)
      (1,042.88)
	
Total - (I+II+III)
63,115.59 
- 
181.85 
9,870.27 
1,185.51 
925.38 
72,907.58 
30,736.18 
- 
5,387.05 
883.04 
491.05 
35,731.23 
37,176.35 
	
Previous year as at 
31st March, 2024
(54,042.69)
 (-139.85) 
- 
(9,668.87)
      (714.28)
      (258.16)
(63,115.59)
(26,514.28)
 (-34.12) 
(4,739.93)
(629.48)
(145.58)
(30,736.17)
(32,379.42)
Notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements
Notes :
i) 	
Figures in brackets represent figures of previous year.
ii) 	
Refer Notes 11.01 and 14.01 for details of security provided in respect of Non-current and current borrowings.
229 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
H in million
Ageing as on 31st March, 2025
Amounts in CWIP for a period of
Less than 1 
year
 Between 
1-2 years 
Between 2-3 
years
 More than 
3 years 
Total
Projects in progress
 2,670.95 
 177.09 
 53.49 
 - 
 2,901.53 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
H in million
Ageing as on 31st March, 2024
Amounts in CWIP for a period of
Less than 1 
year
 Between 1-2 
years 
Between 2-3 
years
 More than 3 
years 
Total
Projects in progress
 1,213.46 
 203.19 
 130.18 
 20.34 
 1,567.17 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
H in million
Ageing as on 31st March, 2024
Amounts in Intangible assets under development for a period of
Less than 1 
year
 Between 1-2 
years 
Between 2-3 
years
 More than 3 
years 
Total
Projects in progress
 1.20 
 24.27 
 - 
 - 
 25.47 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
H in million
Ageing as on 31st March, 2025
Amounts in Intangible assets under development for a period of
Less than 1 
year
 Between 
1-2 years 
Between 2-3 
years
 More than 
3 years 
Total
Projects in progress
 28.15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 28.15 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
3A Capital work-in-progress
ii) 	
There are no immovable properties whose title deeds are not held in the name of the Group or which are jointly held with others, 
other than properties where the Group is the lessee and the lease arrangements are duly executed in the favour of the lessee
iii)  	 For CWIP and Intangible assets under development, there are no projects whose completion date is overdue or its cost exceeded 
as compared to its original plan for the year ended at 31st March, 2025 and for the year ended at 31st March, 2024.
iv) 	
Capital work in progress (CWIP) majorly includes Plant & machinery and buildings.
v) 	
Intangible assets under development majorly includes Software.
Intangible assets under development
230  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
4 Non-current investments
H in million
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
I. 	 Investments in equity shares (all fully paid, unquoted):
	
a. 	 Measured at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)
	
	
Marathwada Auto Cluster
                 10.00 
                 10.00 
	
	
[10,000 (Previous year 10,000) equity shares of face value H 100 each]
	
	
Watsun Infrabuild Pvt Ltd
                   1.45 
                   1.45 
	
	
[145,201 (Previous year 145,201) equity shares of face value H 10 each]
	
b. 	 Measured at fair value through Statement of Profit and Loss
	
	
TP Green Nature Ltd
                 39.62 
                 22.14 
	
	
[11,966,298 (Previous year 6,584,488) equity shares of face value H 10 each]
	
	
Dalavaipuram Renewables Private Ltd
                   7.70 
                      - 
	
	
[1,065,641 (Previous year Nil) equity shares of face value H 10 each]
II. 	 Other investments  (all fully paid, unquoted):
	
	
Measured at amortised cost
	
	
National Savings Certificates
                   0.04 
                   0.04 
	
	
Investments in government or trust securities
                   0.28 
                   0.27 
Total unquoted investments
               59.09 
               33.90 
III. 	Investments in equity shares (all fully paid, quoted):
	
a. 	 Measured at fair value through Statement of Profit and Loss
	
	
Indian Overseas Bank 
                   0.10 
                   0.14 
	
	
[2,300 (Previous year 2,300) equity shares of face value H 10 each]
	
b. 	 Measured at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) 
	
	
Pierer Mobility AG
                 97.57 
               241.19 
	
	
[57,422 (Previous year 57,422) equity shares]
Total quoted investments
               97.67 
             241.33 
Total
             156.76 
             275.23 
Aggregate book value of quoted investments
                 97.67 
               241.33 
Aggregate market value of the quoted investments
                 97.67 
               241.33 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
                 59.09 
                 33.90 
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments
 Nil 
 Nil 
H in million
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
I. Investments in mutual funds, measured at fair value through profit or loss 
(Quoted, fully paid)
 ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               444.10 
               409.34 
 14,543,498.154 units (previous year 14,543,498.154 units)
 HDFC Corporate Bond Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               323.44 
               297.18 
 9,944,428.346 units (previous year 9,944,428.346 units)
 SBI Magnum Gilt Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
                 79.39 
                 72.53 
 1,148,912.216 units (previous year 1,148,912.216 units)
 SBI Arbitrage Opportunities Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               109.78 
               101.76 
 3,108,852.597 units (Previous year 3,108,852.597 units)
 SBI Banking and PSU Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               110.35 
               101.77 
 34,093.171 units (Previous year 34,093.171 units)
 SBI Corporate Bond Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               111.13 
               102.17 
 7,120,685.853 units (Previous year 7,120,685.853 units)
 Bandhan Low Duration Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               251.52 
               233.52 
 6,496,810.517 units (previous year 6,496,810.517 units)
 Bandhan Corporate Bond Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               145.85 
               134.31 
 7,536,554.134 units (Previous year 7,536,554.134 units)
 Bandhan Liquid Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               450.82 
               540.98 
 143,914.496 units (Previous year 185,436.015 units)
4A Current investments
231 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
H in million
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
 Aditya Birla Sunlife Corporate Bond Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               147.11 
               135.14 
 1,308,896.758 units (Previous year 1,308,896.758 units)
 Aditya Birla Sunlife Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               205.76 
               189.67 
 553,166.818 units (previous year 553,166.818 units)
 Aditya Birla Sunlife Liquid Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               300.50 
                      - 
 717,775.258 units (Previous year Nil units)
 UTI Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
                      - 
               311.31 
 Nil units (Previous year 78,653.586 units)
 UTI Corporate Bond Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               197.32 
               181.77 
 12,056,305.793 units (Previous year 12,056,305.793 units)
 UTI Money Market Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               170.37 
               157.93 
 55,664.411 units (Previous year 55,664.411 units)
 UTI Arbitrage Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               109.91 
               101.77 
 2,999,475.073 units (Previous year 2,999,475.073 units)
 Kotak Floating Rate fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               261.08 
               239.77 
 173,067.799 units (previous year 173,067.799 units)
 Kotak Equity Arbitrage Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               114.99 
               106.33 
 2,922,130.113 units (Previous year 2,922,130.113 units)
 Kotak Corporate Bond - Growth - Direct Plan
               146.97 
               135.02 
 38,194.464 units (previous year 38,194.464 units)
 Kotak Liquid Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               301.59 
                      - 
 575,62.669 units (Previous year Nil)
 Axis Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               196.70 
               181.61 
 74,010.823 units (previous year 74,010.823 units)
 Axis Money Market Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               170.50 
               157.98 
 120,411.883 units (previous year 120,411.883 units)
 Axis Liquid Fund - Growth - Direct Plan (CFDGG)
               110.77 
                      - 
 38,415.228 units (Previous year Nil units)
 DSP Liquidity Fund - Direct Plan
               321.96 
               130.36 
 86,821.259 units (Previous year 37,771.757 units)
 SBI Liquid Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               200.36 
                      - 
 49,400.013 units (Previous year Nil units)
 LIC Liquid Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
               201.38 
                      - 
 42,763.126 Units (Previous year Nil)
II. Investments in bonds and other instruments measured at fair value through 
profit or loss (quoted, fully paid)
 Investments in Bonds*
            2,158.65 
            2,242.45 
III. Investments in other funds measured at fair value through profit or loss 
(unquoted, fully paid)
 Insurance Premium Investments - Aviva
                      - 
               403.17 
 Insurance Premium Investments - SOGELIFE
                      - 
               465.45 
 Corporate Cash Plus / AZ RAIF - Azimut Libera Impresa S.G.R. S.p.A.
               536.99 
               517.38 
Total 
          7,879.29 
          7,650.67 
 Aggregate value of impairment in value of investments 
 Nil 
 Nil 
*Comprises investments by Italian subsidiaries in bonds denominated in EUR and USD 
232  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
a)	 Loans to employees
 33.63 
 19.95 
Total 
 33.63 
 19.95 
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
a) 	 Security deposits
 155.10 
 125.67 
b) 	 Deposits with bank with original maturity of more than 12 months
 - 
 1.00 
c) 	 Sales tax receivable
 3.08 
 3.08 
d) 	 Interest accrued on deposits
 - 
 0.06 
Total 
 158.18 
 129.81 
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
a)	 Interest accrued on deposits 
 0.13 
 0.03 
b)	 Receivables on sale of property, plant and equipment
 37.39 
 34.13 
c)	 Foreign currency derivative assets
 0.39 
 1.25 
d)	 Other derivatives
 1.51 
 7.08 
e)	 Government incentive receivables
 1,883.76 
 1,604.35 
f)	
Export incentive (RoDTEP, Duty drawback etc.)
 18.45 
 15.49 
g)	 Deposits with remaining maturity of less than 12 months
 1.00 
 - 
h)	 Others*
 40.40 
 73.48 
Total 
 1,983.03 
 1,735.81 
*Mainly includes foreign subsidiary’s energy refund of H 30.43 million (previous year H 31.92 million)
5A 	 Current - Loans	
	
	
(unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)
5 Other non-current financial assets 
(Unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)
5B	 Other current financial assets		
	
(unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
a) 	 Capital advances
 774.99 
 1,670.89 
b) 	 Prepayments
 98.72 
 54.46 
c) 	 Income taxes paid in advance less provision
 2.06 
 65.34 
d) 	 Income tax deposited under protest
 56.79 
 84.15 
Total 
 932.56 
 1,874.84 
6 Other non-current  assets  
(unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)
233 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Income taxes paid in advance less provision
 774.21 
 899.16 
Total 
 774.21 
 899.16 
6A Current tax assets (net)	
	
	
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
 a) 	Advances for supplies 
 480.25 
 431.16 
 b) 	Prepayments 
 296.76 
 230.96 
 c) 	Balance with government authorities 
 722.52 
 424.84 
 d) 	Others* 
 30.89 
 8.33 
Total 
 1,530.42 
 1,095.29 
*Includes amount of H 3.04 million (previous year H 1.06 million) paid to various regulatory authorities under protest. 
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
a) 	 Raw materials and components
 2,452.48 
 2,024.73 
b) 	 Work-in-progress
 2,923.64 
 2,959.98 
c) 	 Finished goods (other than those acquired for trading)
 2,183.80 
 1,644.59 
d) 	 Stock-in-trade (acquired for trading)
 497.80 
 865.62 
e) 	 Stores, spares and packing material 
 1,211.51 
 1,145.12 
f) 	 Loose tools and instruments
 94.42 
 82.08 
Total 
9,363.65
8,722.12
 Included above, Goods-in-transit in respect to 
 i) 	 Raw materials and components 
 247.99 
 132.43 
 ii) 	Finished goods (other than those acquired for trading) 
 225.31 
 199.92 
Total 
 473.30 
 332.35 
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
 Unsecured:
 i) 	 Considered good 
 14,185.76 
 12,623.80 
 ii) 	Credit impaired 
 182.22 
 93.59 
 Less: Allowance for credit impaired 
 (182.22)
 (93.59)
Total 
 14,185.76 
 12,623.80 
6B  Other current  assets
      (unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)	 	
	
7 Inventories
(Valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)
8 Trade receivables
234  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 6 
months
Between 
6 months  - 1 
year
Between 
1 - 2 years
Between 
2 - 3 years
More than 3 
years
31st March, 2025
i) 	 Undisputed Trade receivables 
considered good
 14,139.65 
 25.38 
 14.80 
 5.60 
 0.33 
 14,185.76 
ii) 	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iii) 	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 52.15 
 59.98 
 22.41 
 10.97 
 36.71 
 182.22 
iv) 	 Disputed Trade Receivables–
considered good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
v) 	 Disputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
vi) 	 Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 14,191.80 
 85.36 
 37.21 
 16.57 
 37.04 
 14,367.98 
8A Trade receivables Ageing:
 H in million
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 6 
months
Between 
6 months  - 1 
year
Between 
1 - 2 years
Between 
2 - 3 years
More than 3 
years
31st March, 2024
i) 	 Undisputed Trade receivables 
considered good
 12,494.98 
 108.07 
 20.42 
 0.08 
 0.25 
 12,623.80 
ii) 	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iii) 	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 50.32 
 10.80 
 12.87 
 18.33 
 92.32 
iv) 	 Disputed Trade Receivables–
considered good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
v) 	 Disputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
vi) 	 Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.27 
 1.27 
Total
 12,494.98 
 158.39 
 31.22 
 12.95 
 19.85 
 12,717.39 
Notes:	
	
	
	
	 	
	
1. 	
Trade receivables are dues in respect of goods sold or services rendered in the normal course of business.
2. 	
The normal credit period allowed by the Group ranges from 30 to 60 days for customers in India and 30 to 120 days for 
overseas customers.
3. 	
There are no unbilled receivables, hence the same is not disclosed in the ageing schedule.	
4. 	
Pursuant to an arrangement with a bank, the Group has sold to the bank certain of its trade receivables on a non-recourse basis. 
The receivables sold were mutually agreed upon with the respective bank after considering the creditworthiness and contractual 
terms with the customer. The Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of such receivables sold 
to the respective bank, and accordingly, the same were derecognized in the Balance Sheet. As at 31st March, 2025, the amount 
of trade receivables de-recognised pursuant to the aforesaid arrangement H 1,358.74 mn (31st March, 2024: H 1,699.92 mn) in 
overseas subsidiaries.	 	
	
	
	
	
5. 	
Except for the disclosure given in Note no. 35, no trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the 
company either severally or jointly with any other person. Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or private 
companies respectively in which any director is a partner, a director or a member.	
	
	
	
235 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
 a) 	Cash on hand 
 1.13 
 1.84 
 b) 	Balance with banks: 
 	
i) 	 In current account 
 10,187.46 
 5,044.42 
Total 
 10,188.59 
 5,046.26 
9 Cash and cash equivalents
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
 Other bank balances (in earmarked accounts) 
 i) 	 In current account for equity dividend 
 0.44 
 0.42 
 ii) 	Balance held as margin money against letters of credit* 
 0.01 
 0.12 
Total 
 0.45 
 0.54 
*Represents margin money amounting to H 0.01 million (Previous year H 0.12 million) against various guarantees  and letters of credit  issued by bank on behalf of 
the Company. These deposits are not available for use by the Company as the same is in the nature of restricted cash. 
9A Other bank balances
 H in million
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
No. of shares
Amount
No. of shares
Amount
A	 Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid-up 
share capital
 	
Authorised: 
  	
Equity shares of H 10 each 
	
(Previous year H 10 each)	
 165,000,000 
 1,650.00 
 165,000,000 
 1,650.00 
 	
Total 
 165,000,000 
 1,650.00 
 165,000,000 
 1,650.00 
 	
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up: 
  	
Equity shares of H 10 each 
 	
(Previous year H 10 each) 
 140,662,848 
 1,406.63 
 140,662,848 
 1,406.63 
 	
Total 
 140,662,848 
 1,406.63 
 140,662,848 
 1,406.63 
10  Share capital
B	 Reconciliation of the number of shares and amount outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting year:
 H in million
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
No. of shares
Amount
No. of shares
Amount
 	
 No of shares outstanding at the beginning of 
the year 
	
  - 	 Equity shares 
 140,662,848 
 1,406.63 
 140,662,848 
 1,406.63 
 	
No of shares outstanding at the end of the year
 140,662,848 
 1,406.63 
 140,662,848 
 1,406.63 
236  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
C	
Notes
i)	
Details of shares held by the promoter and members of the promoter group in the Company are as follows:
No. of shares as at 
31st March, 2025
%
No. of shares as at 
31st March, 2024
%
Equity shares:
1 Mr. Anurang Jain
 43,396,896 
 30.85 
 43,396,896 
 30.85 
2 Mr. Anurang Jain1
 28,300,000 
 20.12 
 28,300,000 
 20.12 
3 Mrs. Suman Jain2
 16,890,000 
 12.01 
 16,890,000 
 12.01 
4 Mr. Naresh Chandra3
 16,910,000 
 12.02 
 16,910,000 
 12.02 
5 Mrs. Varsha Jain*
 80 
 0.00 
 80 
 0.00 
6 Mrs. Rhea Jain Kapoor*
 80 
 0.00 
 80 
 0.00 
7 Mr. Rohan Jain*
 80 
 0.00 
 80 
 0.00 
* % below 0.01%.
ii)	
Details of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares in the Company are as follows:
No. of shares as at 
31st March, 2025
%
No. of shares as at 
31st March, 2024
%
Equity shares:
1 	 Mr. Anurang Jain
 43,396,896 
 30.85 
 43,396,896 
 30.85 
2 	 Mr. Anurang Jain1
 28,300,000 
 20.12 
 28,300,000 
 20.12 
3 	 Mrs. Suman Jain 2
 16,890,000 
 12.01 
 16,890,000 
 12.01 
4 	 Mr. Naresh Chandra 3
 16,910,000 
 12.02 
 16,910,000 
 12.02 
1 	
Held by Mr. Anurang Jain in his capacity as the family trustee of the Anurang Rohan Trust (“Anurang Rohan Trust”). The Anurang Rohan Trust is a private 
family trust, settled by Mr. Anurang Jain, pursuant to a deed of settlement dated 11th June, 2016 as amended by a deed of amendment dated 23rd June, 
2016 (the “Anurang Rohan Trust Deed”). The trustees of the Anurang Rohan Trust are Mr. Anurang Jain and Mrs. Varsha Jain, as the family trustees, and 
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Limited, as the managing trustee. Pursuant to the Anurang Rohan Trust Deed, Mr. Anurang Jain shall, as long as he is 
acting as the family trustee, exclusively exercise voting rights in respect of these equity shares.
2 	
Held by Mrs. Suman Jain in her capacity as the family trustee of NC Trust (“NC Trust”). The NC Trust is a private family trust settled by Mr. Naresh Chandra, 
pursuant to a deed of settlement dated 15th June, 2016 (the “NC Trust Deed”). The trustees of the NC Trust are Mrs. Suman Jain, as the family trustee, and 
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Limited, as the managing trustee. Pursuant to the NC Trust Deed, Mrs. Suman Jain shall, as long as she is acting as the 
family trustee, exclusively exercise voting rights in respect of these equity shares.
3 	
Held by Mr. Naresh Chandra in his capacity as the family trustee of Anurang Rhea Trust (“Anurang Rhea Trust”). The Anurang Rhea Trust is a private 
family trust settled by Mrs. Suman Jain, pursuant to a deed of settlement dated 15th June, 2016 (the “Anurang Rhea Trust Deed”). The trustees of the 
Anurang Rhea Trust are Mr. Naresh Chandra, as the family trustee, and Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Limited, as the managing trustee. Pursuant 
to the Anurang Rhea Trust Deed, Mr. Naresh Chandra shall, as long as he is acting as the family trustee, exclusively exercise voting rights in respect of 
these equity shares.
iii)	
The Company has only one class of equity shares. Each holder of equity share is entitled to one vote per share held. In the event 
of liquidation of the Company, the holder of the equity share will be entitled to receive remaining assets after deducting all its 
liabilities in proportion to the number of equity shares held.	 	
	
	
237 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Reserves and surplus
(a)	 Securities premium (Refer note (i) below)
	
Balance at the beginning and end of the year
 160.40 
 160.40 
(b)	 Capital reserve (Refer note (ii) below)
	
Balance at the beginning and end of the year
 209.32 
 209.32 
(c)	 General reserve (Refer note (iii) below)
	
Balance at the beginning and end of the year
 1,195.40 
 1,195.40 
(d)	 Retained earnings (Refer note (iv) below)
	
Balance at the beginning of the year
 44,455.42 
 38,665.28 
	
Profit for the year
 8,363.53 
 6,804.88 
	
Remeasurements of defined benefit plans
 (27.18)
 (30.10)
	
Dividend paid (Refer note 38)
 (1,195.63)
 (984.64)
	
Balance at the end of the year
 51,596.14 
 44,455.42 
Other reserves
(e)	 Foreign currency translation reserve (Refer note (v) below)
	
Balance at the beginning of the year
 2,339.82 
 2,191.35 
	
Add : Exchange differences arising on translating the foreign operation
 470.45 
 148.47 
	
Balance at the end of the year
 2,810.27 
 2,339.82 
(f)	 Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer note (vi) below)
	
Balance at the beginning of the year
 81.46 
 246.46 
	
Change in fair value of hedging instruments
 (80.85)
 (167.12)
	
Translation difference
 0.74 
 2.12 
	
Balance at the end of the year
 1.35 
 81.46 
(g)	 Reserve for equity instruments through other comprehensive income (Refer note 
(vii) below)
	
Balance at the beginning of the year
 (74.04)
 46.45 
	
Fair valuation gain for the year
 (131.31)
 (120.49)
	
Balance at the end of the year
 (205.35)
 (74.04)
Total 
 55,767.53 
 48,367.78 
(i)	
Securities premium: Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for 
limited purposes such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
(ii)	
Capital reserve: The Group recognises profit or loss on purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments 
to capital reserve.
(iii)	
General Reserve: General reserve was created through an annual transfer of net income at a specified percentage in accordance 
with applicable regulations under the erstwhile Companies Act, 1956. Consequent to introduction of Companies Act, 2013, the 
requirement to mandatorily transfer a specified percentage of the net profit to general reserve has been withdrawn. 
(iv)	
Retained earnings are the profits/(loss) that the Group has earned/incurred till date, less any transfers to general reserve, 
dividends or other distributions paid to shareholders. Retained earnings include re-measurement loss/(gain) on defined benefit 
plans, net of taxes that will not be reclassified to Statement of Profit and Loss.
(v)	
Foreign currency translation reserve: Exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign operations are recognised 
in other comprehensive income as described in accounting policy and accumulated in a separate reserve within equity. The 
cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss when the net investment is disposed-off.
(vi)	
Cash flow hedging reserve: The Group uses hedging instruments as part of its management of commodity risks and interest rate 
risks (refer note 32). For hedging commodity risks and interest rate risk, the Group uses commodity swaps, interest rate swaps 
and interest rate caps. To the extent these hedges are effective, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised 
in the effective portion of cash flow hedges. Amounts recognised in the effective portion of cash flow hedges is reclassified to 
the statement of profit and loss when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
(vii)	 Reserve for equity instruments through other comprehensive income: The Group has elected to recognise changes in the fair 
value of certain investments in equity securities in other comprehensive income. These changes are accumulated within the 
Equity instruments through Other Comprehensive Income Reserve within equity. The Group may transfer amounts from this 
reserve to retained earnings when the relevant equity securities are derecognised.
10A Other equity
238  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Right of use lease liability (Refer note 11.02 and 34)
 286.02 
 164.89 
Total
 286.02 
 164.89 
11 Non-current borrowings (Refer Note 11.01 and 11.02)
 H in million
Particulars
Term loan from 
banks
Right of use lease 
liability
Total
Current maturities
2025-26
 3,092.23 
 112.05 
 3,204.28 
Non current maturities
2026-27
 2,512.62 
 111.57 
 2,624.19 
2027-28
 1,613.06 
 70.34 
 1,683.40 
2028-29
 822.04 
 60.30 
 882.34 
2029-30
 494.18 
 43.81 
 537.99 
2030-31 to 2031-32
 504.51 
 - 
 504.51 
Total
 5,946.41 
 286.02 
 6,232.43 
As at 31st March, 2024
 H in million
Particulars
Term loan from 
banks
Right of use lease 
liability
Total
Current maturities
2024-25
 2,559.19 
 90.69 
 2,649.88 
Non current maturities
2025-26
 2,264.89 
 66.35 
 2,331.24 
2026-27
 1,668.57 
 50.77 
 1,719.34 
2027-28
 778.51 
 31.11 
 809.62 
2028-29
 45.59 
 16.51 
 62.10 
2029-30 to 2030-31
 44.97 
 0.15 
 45.12 
Total
 4,802.53 
 164.89 
 4,967.42 
11A Non-current lease liabilities
11.02 Maturity profile
As at 31st March, 2025
11.01 Details of security and interest rates in respect of non-current borrowings
Secured loans from banks taken by foreign subsidiaries are secured by first legal charge on certain property, plant and equipment. 
The interest rate on both secured and unsecured loans range from Euribor 3 month to Euribor 6 months with spread ranging from 
0.002% to 2.200% p.a. (previous year 0.002% to 2.200% p.a.). 
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Measured at amortised cost
A. 	Secured borrowings
   	 Term loans:
	
From banks
 125.44 
 147.76 
Total A
 125.44 
 147.76 
B. 	Unsecured borrowings
   	 Term loans:
	
From banks
 5,820.97 
 4,654.77 
Total B
 5,820.97 
 4,654.77 
Total A+B
 5,946.41 
 4,802.53 
239 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
a) 	 Provision for employee benefits
	
i) 	 Provision for gratuity (Refer note 30)
 6.16 
 3.97 
	
ii) 	 Provision for employee severance indemnity (Refer note 30)  
 377.22 
 315.55 
	
iii) 	 Provision for employee separation cost
 0.73 
 0.71 
b) 	 Provision for others
  	
i)  	 Provision for warranty (Refer note 13A.01)
 145.99 
 147.77 
  	
ii) 	 Provision for litigations #
 204.50 
 133.78 
Total 
 734.60 
 601.78 
# Represents provision created for litigations in overseas subsidiaries.
13 Non-current provisions
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
a) 	 Provision for employee benefits
	
i)  	 Provision for compensated absences
 47.09 
 52.57 
	
ii) 	 Provision for gratuity (Refer note 30)
 129.61 
 120.97 
b) 	 Provision for others
  	
Provision for warranty (Refer note 13A.01)
 86.79 
 70.99 
Total 
 263.49 
 244.53 
Note 13A Current provisions
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
a) 	 Security deposits received from dealers
 91.78 
 104.29 
b) 	 Retention money payable
 41.49 
 24.69 
c) 	 Deferred payment liability (Refer note 26)
 66.69 
 865.82 
Total 
 199.96 
 994.80 
12 Other non-current financial liabilities
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
a) 	 Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 16.65 
 17.12 
b) 	 Foreign currency derivative liabilities
 9.31 
 22.46 
c) 	 Other derivative liabilities
 6.58 
 - 
d) 	 Payables on purchase of property, plant and equipment
 1,490.66 
 1,953.13 
e) 	 Deferred payment liability
 75.01 
 125.25 
f) 	 Unpaid equity dividend
 0.44 
 0.42 
Total 
 1,598.65 
 2,118.38 
Note 12A Other current financial liabilities
240  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Measured at amortised cost
A. 	 Secured Borrowings
	
a) 	 Current maturities of long-term borrowings (Refer note 11.02)
 26.41 
 97.65 
Total Secured borrowings
 26.41 
 97.65 
B. 	 Unsecured Borrowings (Refer Note 14.01)
	
a) 	 From bank
	
	
-	
Cash credit / working capital demand loans
 - 
 36.10 
	
b) 	 Current maturities of long-term borrowings (Refer note 11.02)
 3,065.82 
 2,461.54 
Total unsecured borrowings
 3,065.82 
 2,497.64 
Total 
 3,092.23 
 2,595.29 
14 Current borrowings		
	
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Carrying amount as at 1st April
 218.76 
 191.12 
Provision made during the year
 74.51 
 101.72 
Discounting/unwinding effect
 - 
 (1.99)
Amount paid/utilised during the year
 (63.68)
 (73.15)
Exchange variation
 3.19 
 1.06 
Carrying amount as at 31st March
 232.78 
 218.76 
Provision for warranties: The Group gives warranties on certain products from the date of sale, for their satisfactory performance 
during the warranty period as per the contracts with buyers. Provision for warranty claims arising out of such obligation is made based 
on such warranty period.
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Trade payables for goods and services
 i) 	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 1,012.74 
 734.98 
 ii) 	Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 18,729.85 
 15,309.68 
Total 
 19,742.59 
 16,044.66 
13A.01 Details of warranty provision (Refer note 13 (b) and 13A (b))
15 Trade payables
14.01 Details of interest rates for current borrowings in overseas subsidiaries
Short term foreign currency loans availed during FY 2023-24 carries interest rate range from Euribor 3 month to Euribor 6 months with 
spread ranging from 0.90% to 1.50% p.a.
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Right of use lease liability (Refer note 11.02 and note 34)
 112.05 
 90.69 
Total
 112.05 
 90.69 
14.1 Lease liabilities
241 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
Between 
1 - 2 years
Between 
2 - 3 years
More than 3 
years
31st March, 2025
i) 	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and 
small enterprises ('MSME')
 1,012.74 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,012.74 
ii) 	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than 
micro enterprises and small enterprises
 18,415.11 
 102.27 
 155.94 
 56.53 
 18,729.85 
iii) 	 Disputed dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv) 	 Disputed dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 19,427.85 
 102.27 
 155.94 
 56.53 
 19,742.59 
 H in million
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
Between 
1 - 2 years
Between 
2 - 3 years
More than 3 
years
31st March, 2024
i) Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and 
small enterprises ('MSME')
 734.98 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 734.98 
ii) Total outstanding dues of creditors other than 
micro enterprises and small enterprises
 14,900.13 
 142.75 
 207.25 
 39.57 
 15,289.70 
iii) Disputed dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv) Disputed dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 - 
 - 
 19.98 
 - 
 19.98 
Total
 15,635.11 
 142.75 
 227.23 
 39.57 
 16,044.66 
Trade payables ageing schedule:
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
a) 	 Advances received from customers
 1,012.66 
 277.82 
b) 	 Income received in advance
 5.28 
 7.91 
c) 	 Statutory remittances  
(contribution to PF, ESIC, Withholding taxes, Goods and Service Tax etc.)
 930.79 
 919.21 
Total 
 1,948.73 
 1,204.94 
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Provision for tax (net of advance taxes and taxes deducted at source)
 160.38 
 75.76 
Total 
 160.38 
 75.76 
16 Other current liabilities
17 Current tax liabilities (net)
Note : Trade payables are non interest bearing and are normally settled in 0 to 90 days.
242  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
18 Revenue from Operations (Refer note 18.01 below)
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Deferred tax liabilities
On account of temporary differences in 
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 (574.45)
 (366.33)
	
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedge
 (0.82)
 (45.19)
	
Fair valuation of current investments
 (95.33)
 (86.67)
	
Provision for employee benefits and others
 - 
 (0.88)
	
Others
 (10.90)
 (13.06)
Total
 (681.50)
 (512.13)
Deferred tax assets
On account of temporary differences in 
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 99.68 
 77.47 
	
Provision for employee benefits and others
 372.93 
 368.17 
	
Provision for expected credit loss
 16.95 
 0.32 
	
Expenses disallowed
 98.51 
 98.81 
	
Fair valuation of equity instruments
 34.27 
 21.97 
	
Unadjusted tax benefit in subsidiaries
 593.33 
 563.69 
	
Others
 27.42 
 20.09 
Total
 1,243.09 
 1,150.52 
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
 561.59 
 638.39 
Disclosed as
Deferred tax liabilities
 133.54 
 144.28 
Deferred tax assets
 695.13 
 782.67 
17A Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Revenue from contracts with customers
 113,713.70 
 100,824.97 
Other operating revenue
 1,894.40 
 1,583.74 
Total 
 115,608.10 
 102,408.71 
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Revenue from contracts with customers
Goods and Services transferred at a point in time
Sale of manufactured goods
Shock absorbers
 30,592.43 
 27,280.31 
Disc brake assembly (including rotary disc)
 13,155.52 
 11,247.73 
Aluminium die casting parts
 47,450.07 
 41,737.77 
Alloy wheels
 8,526.99 
 7,601.55 
Clutch and clutch parts 
 4,810.53 
 4,869.72 
Others
 6,068.13 
 5,655.26 
Total - (A)
 110,603.67 
 98,392.34 
Sale of traded goods
Components and spares
 2,854.28 
 2,127.97 
Total - (B)
 2,854.28 
 2,127.97 
Job work charges and other services - (C)
 253.41 
 287.50 
Total - (A+B+C)
 113,711.36 
 100,807.81 
18.01 Details of revenue from contracts with customers and other operating revenue
243 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
India
 85,406.72 
 75,819.36 
Outside India
 28,306.98 
 25,005.61 
 113,713.70 
 100,824.97 
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Revenue as per contracted price
 114,112.79 
 101,186.56 
Adjustments:
Discounts
 399.09 
 361.59 
Revenue from contract with customers
 113,713.70 
 100,824.97 
18.02 Revenue from Contracts with customers
18.03 Reconciliation of amount of revenue recognised in the statement of profit and loss with the contracted price
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
a) 	 Interest Income
	
i) 	 Bank deposits
 83.62 
 26.76 
	
ii) 	 Others
 8.43 
 4.65 
b) 	 Dividend income from long term investments
 2.56 
 5.61 
c) 	 Other non operating income
	
i) 	 Excess provision/creditors' balances written back
 100.19 
 56.73 
	
ii) 	 Income from current investments *
 515.40 
 449.37 
	
iii) 	 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
 71.41 
 90.45 
	
iv) 	 Contribution for R&D projects
 186.91 
 - 
	
v) 	 Miscellaneous income
 122.05 
 170.25 
d) 	 Net gain on foreign currency transactions  
      (other than considered as finance cost)
 79.17 
 52.33 
Total 
 1,169.74 
 856.15 
* Includes gain on sale of investments H 155.61 million (previous year H 151.62 million) and gain on fair value changes H 359.79 million (previous year H 297.75 million)
19 Other income	
	
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Services transferred over time
Sale of licenses
 2.34 
 17.16 
Revenue from Contracts with customers
 113,713.70 
 100,824.97 
Other operating revenue comprises:
Scrap sales
 1,000.16 
 610.25 
Export incentives (Refer note 36(b))
 45.85 
 50.38 
Government incentives (Refer note 36(a) and 37)
 848.39 
 923.11 
Total 
 1,894.40 
 1,583.74 
244  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Opening stock (including goods in transit)
 2,024.73 
 1,683.53 
Add: Purchases
 65,758.40 
 59,777.38 
 67,783.13 
 61,460.91 
Less: Closing stock (including goods in transit)
 2,452.48 
 2,024.73 
Cost of materials consumed
 65,330.65 
 59,436.18 
Cost of materials capitalised
 (281.96)
 (206.60)
Total 
 65,048.69 
 59,229.58 
Note -  The consumption includes excess/shortages on physical count, write off of obsolete items etc.	
20A Cost of materials consumed
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Components and spares
 1,117.53 
 1,409.06 
Total 
 1,117.53 
 1,409.06 
20B Purchases of stock-in-trade (traded goods)
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Inventories at the end of the year:
Finished goods
 (2,183.80)
 (1,644.59)
Work-in-progress
 (2,923.64)
 (2,959.98)
Stock-in-trade
 (497.80)
 (865.62)
 (5,605.24)
 (5,470.19)
Inventories at the beginning of the year:
Finished goods
 1,644.59 
 1,856.74 
Work-in-progress
 2,959.98 
 2,778.03 
Stock-in-trade
 865.62 
 702.51 
 5,470.19 
 5,337.28 
Net increase
 (135.05)
 (132.91)
20C Changes in stock of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Salary, wages and bonus
 8,378.34 
 7,293.90 
Contribution to provident and other funds (Refer note 30)
 458.82 
 416.03 
Staff welfare expenses
 1,236.33 
 1,089.04 
Total 
 10,073.49 
 8,798.97 
21 Employee benefits expense
245 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
a) 	 Interest expenses on
	
i) 	 Borrowings
 336.88 
 280.05 
	
ii) 	 Lease liability
 11.87 
 12.69 
	
iii) 	 Deferred payment liability
 75.63 
 79.89 
	
iv) 	 Others
 35.44 
 45.67 
b) 	 Other borrowing costs
i) 	 Bank charges
 8.29 
 8.28 
Total 
 468.11 
 426.58 
22 Finance costs
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Stores and spares consumed
 2,359.95 
 1,982.49 
Packing material consumed
 805.65 
 706.60 
Tools and instruments consumed
 367.51 
 370.43 
Processing charges
 4,544.71 
 3,937.23 
Labour charges
 3,634.83 
 2,640.96 
Power, water and fuel
 5,269.74 
 4,343.48 
Rent
 197.42 
 196.53 
Repairs and maintenance:
Plant and machinery
 2,122.33 
 1,652.34 
Building
 70.52 
 90.38 
General
 364.52 
 351.73 
Insurance
 201.28 
 184.07 
Rates and taxes
 28.63 
 38.18 
Travelling and conveyance
 469.05 
 396.47 
Freight
 1,598.94 
 1,291.80 
Advertisement
 32.51 
 67.83 
Payment to auditors
 11.52 
 11.24 
Payment to auditors of subsidiaries
 23.18 
 19.89 
Directors fees and travelling expenses
 37.56 
 38.68 
Allowance for doubtful debts, net
 2.46 
 4.39 
Bad debts written off
 1.54 
 11.75 
Warranty claims, net of provision reversed
 224.56 
 234.75 
Expenditure on corporate social responsibility
 125.00 
 110.10 
Miscellaneous expenses
 1,562.44 
 1,197.01 
Total 
 24,055.87 
 19,878.33 
Expenses capitalised 
 (63.19)
 (54.16)
Total
 23,992.68 
 19,824.17 
23 Other expenses
246  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
(a)	 Current Tax expenses
 2,474.91 
 2,096.84 
(b)	 Short/(excess) provision for tax relating to prior years
 (21.63)
 (125.13)
(c)	 Deferred tax credit
 130.30 
 192.89 
Total
 2,583.58 
 2,164.60 
24 Taxes
Income tax expense	
(i)	
Statement of Profit and Loss section
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
(a)
Accounting profit before income tax
 10,947.11 
 8,969.48 
(b)
India’s statutory income tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
(c) 
Computed tax expense
 2,755.17 
 2,257.44 
(d)
Reconciliation items
CSR expenditure and donation
 125.02 
 110.10 
Adjustment to Property, plant and equipment balances on account of EPCG
 23.58 
 21.22 
Capital gain on sale of land chargeable to tax at capital gain tax rate
 (21.41)
 - 
Weighted deduction in respect of depreciation/other expenses in foreign 
subsidiaries
 (819.53)
 (936.20)
Expenses disallowances
 0.96 
 2.28 
Deferred tax asset not created on losses by subsidiary
 162.58 
 350.07 
Others
 (164.98)
 (16.04)
Depreciation on leasehold land
 26.68 
 26.09 
(e)
Net Adjustment
 (667.10)
 (442.48)
(f)
Tax expense/(saving) on net adjustment (e*b)
 (167.90)
 (111.36)
(g)
Tax effect of change in tax rate related to investments from mutual funds
 (56.59)
 - 
(h)
Tax on Investment in Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited
 2.90 
 - 
(i)
Long term capital gain tax on sale of assets
 14.32 
 - 
(j)
Effect of higher tax rates in the Italy and Germany
 35.72 
 26.17 
(k)
Tax expenses recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss (c+f+g+h+i+j)
 2,583.62 
 2,172.25 
(l)
Short/(excess) provision for tax relating to prior years
 (0.04)
 (7.65)
(m)
Net tax expenses recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss (h+i)
 2,583.58 
 2,164.60 
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss in subsequent years
(a) 	Net gain/(loss) on remeasurement of defined benefit plans
 (36.06)
 (40.41)
(b) 	Income tax charged to OCI on remeasurement of defined benefit plan
 8.88 
 10.31 
(c) 	Net gain/(loss) on change in fair value of equity instruments
 (143.61)
 (156.24)
(d) 	Income tax charged to OCI on fair valuation of investment in equity shares
 12.30 
 35.75 
Items that will be reclassified to profit and loss in subsequent years
(a) 	Net gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges
 (111.46)
 (231.09)
(b) 	Income-tax effect of cash flow hedges
 30.61 
 63.97 
(ii)	 Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) Section
(iii)	 Reconciliation of effective tax rate
247 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
25(a) Impairment testing of goodwill
For impairment testing, goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to the respective CGUs as mentioned 
in table below:
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each of the CGUs
 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Sensitivity
Discount rate
19%
18%
Increase by 1% would result in increase in 
impairment by H 121 million
Terminal growth rate
5%
5%
Decrease by 1% would result in increase in 
impairment by H 71 million	
EBITDA %
5.00% to 14.00%
5.00% to 14.00%
Decrease by 1% in terminal EBITDA 
margin would result in increase in 
impairment by H 84 million	 	
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Opening balance
 3,923.00 
 3,900.18 
Less: Impairment
 (581.67)
 - 
Add: Impact of foreign currency translation
 63.79 
 22.82 
Closing balance
 3,405.12 
 3,923.00 
25 Disclosure of Goodwill
 H in million
Particulars
Goodwill
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited, India
 1,035.39 
 1,617.06 
European business
 2,369.73 
 2,305.94 
Total
 3,405.12 
 3,923.00 
The Group performed its annual impairment test for years ended 31st March, 2025 and 31st March 2024 on 31st March, 2025 and 31st 
March, 2024 respectively. The Group considers the relationship between the fair value (based on DCF) of the CGUs and its book value, 
among other factors, when reviewing for indicators of impairment.
Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited (“Maxwell”)	
The recoverable amount of Maxwell, has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections from 
financial budgets approved by senior management covering the period of five years. The terminal growth rate used to extrapolate 
the cash flows of the unit beyond the five year period is 5%. Management determined budgeted EBITDA based on expectations of 
the electric vehicle market development in India and globally.
Based on the assessment carried out by the management, the carrying amount of CGU was determined to be higher than its 
recoverable amount of H 1,535 million and an impairment loss of H 581.67 million was recognised during year ended 31st March, 2025. 
The impairment charge is recognised as an exceptional item (Refer notes 38(i) and 39(c)(ii)).
Key assumptions used for value in use calculations and the sensitivity to changes in these assumptions are as follows:
248  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Discount rate
7.58%
10.23%
Terminal growth rate
1%
0%
EBITDA %
15% to 20%
13% to 17%
Management determined budgeted EBITDA based on past performance and its expectations of market development. The calculations performed indicate that 
there is no impairment of CGU. Management has performed a sensitivity analysis with respect to reasonable changes in assumptions for assessment of value-in-
use of CGU. Based on this analysis, management believes that reasonable change in any of above assumption would not cause the carrying value of unit’s CGU 
to exceed its recoverable amount.	
European business
The recoverable amount of European business, has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections from 
financial budgets approved by senior management covering the period of five years. The terminal growth rate used to extrapolate the 
cash flows of the unit beyond the five year period is 1%.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Key assumptions used for value in use calculations and the sensitivity to changes in these assumptions are as follows:
26	 a.	
Acquisition of Ingenia Automation Srl	
	
	
	
	
Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy, subsidiary of the Company, has acquired 100% stake in Ingenia Automation Srl (“Ingenia”), 
Italy, with an effective date of 31st May, 2024. Ingenia, based in Turin, Italy, operates in the design, production and 
installation of industrial automation systems. The acquisition has been completed for a consideration not exceeding Euro 
3.6 million, which includes an earn-out up to Euro 0.6 million to be paid after 31st December, 2027, upon fulfilment of 
certain conditions subsequent.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of these entities as at the date of acquisition were:
 H in million
Ingenia 
Automation Srl
Assets
Property, plant and equipment
 50.36 
Intangible assets 
 131.49 
Other financial assets
 0.13 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 244.20 
Inventories 
 122.21 
Investments
 94.35 
Trade receivables 
 365.21 
Other current assets
 46.64 
Total - (A)
 1,054.59 
Liabilities
Borrowings
 29.66 
Trade payables
 414.73 
Other financial liabilities
 5.37 
Provisions
 100.28 
Deferred tax liabilities
 35.85 
Current tax liabilities
 15.22 
Other current liabilities
 185.67 
Total - (B)
 786.78 
Total identifiable net assets at fair value (A-B)
 267.81 
Goodwill arising on acquisition
 - 
Purchase consideration transferred
 267.81 
249 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
	
	
Purchase consideration
 H in million
Ingenia 
Automation Srl
Cash and cash equivalents
 203.35 
Deferred payable
 64.46 
Total consideration
 267.81 
	
	
Analysis of cash flows on acquisition
 H in million
Ingenia 
Automation Srl
Total consideration
 (203.35)
Cash and cash equivalents acquired with the subsidiary
 244.20 
Net cash flow on acquisition
 40.85 
	
b. 	 Acquisition of additional shares in Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited
	
	
On 17th July, 2023, the Company acquired additional 5% equity stake  in Maxwell thereby increasing its shareholding 
to 56%. This additional stake has been acquired for a cash consideration of C 69.43 million, based on the agreed 
valuation methodology as per the terms of Share Subscription and Purchase Agreement dated 18th May, 2022. 
(Refer Note 38(i))	
	
	
On 31st July, 2024, the Company acquired additional 5.5% equity stake in its subsidiary, Maxwell Energy Systems Private 
Limited, thereby increasing its shareholding to 61.5%. This additional stake has been acquired for a cash consideration of 
H 0.01 million based on the agreed valuation methodology as per the terms of Share Subscription and Purchase Agreement 
dated 18th May, 2022	
	
	
	
c. 	
Merger of overseas step down subsidiaries
	
	
With effect from 1st January, 2025, Frenotecnica Srl, Italy and New Fren Srl, Italy, (Transferor companies), wholly-owned 
subsidiaries of Endurance Overseas SpA, were merged into Endurance Adler SpA, Italy, (Transferee company), wholly-
owned subsidiary of Endurance Overseas SpA. Upon merger, name of Endurance Adler SpA changed to Endurance Two 
Wheelers SpA, from the effective date.
	
d. 	 Share buyback by Endurance Overseas SpA
	
	
On 14th March, 2025, Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy (EOSPA) bought back 5% of its equity shares held by Endurance GmbH, 
Germany, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The buy-back of shares by EOSPA has been for a consideration of 
EUR 8.50 million, which is based on enterprise value arrived at using standard valuation principles. The said transaction 
does not have any financial impact on consolidated financial statements.
	
e. 	 Investment in equity shares of Pierer Mobility AG, Austria
	
	
During the earlier years, the Company executed a Share Purchase agreement with Pierer Konzerngesellschaft mbH, a 
shareholder of PIERER Mobility AG, Austria ('PMAG'), to purchase the equity shares of PMAG, worth of EUR 4 million in two 
equal tranches in financial year 2022-23 and 2023-24. PMAG is a European manufacturer of powered two wheelers and is listed 
on the Swiss stock exchange, Zurich.		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
In the year 2022-23, the Company had invested in 31,654 equity shares in Pierer Mobility AG, Austria at a cost of C 162.20 
million (EUR 2.0 million). 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
During the year ended 31st March, 2024, Company invested in 25,768 equity shares at a cost of C 175.00 million (EUR 
2.0 million). The fair value of investment as on 31st March, 2025 is C 97.57 million (previous year C 241.19 million) and fair 
value loss for the year ended 31st March, 2025 is C 143.62 million (previous year loss C 156.24 million). The Company has 
opted for irrevocable option of recognising fair value change through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) as this is a 
strategic investment.
250  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
	
f. 	
Investment in equity shares of TP Green Nature Limited	
	
	
During the year ended 31st March, 2025, the Company subscribed to the Rights issue of TP Green Nature Ltd for 5,381,810 
equity shares of face value of C 10 each at par amounting to H 53.82 million. The purpose of investment is to purchase the 
electricity units for plants at Chakan and Waluj for captive consumption. The total investment of the Company in TP Green 
Nature Limited as at 31st March, 2025 amounts to C 39.62 million (Previous year C 22.14 million).
	
	
Based on the terms of the Power Delivery Agreement with TP Green Nature Limited and the Share Holders’ Agreement 
with Tata Power Renewable Energy Limited, the Company classified this investment as financial instrument measured at fair 
value through statement of profit and loss.
	
g. 	 Investment in equity shares of Dalavaipuram Renewables Private Limited
	
	
During the year ended 31st March, 2025, the Company purchased 1,065,641 equity shares of Dalavaipuram Renewables 
Private Limited ("Dalavaipuram") for H 10.66 million. Dalavaipuram is a special purpose vehicle incorporated with the 
main objective of setting up and operating the plant for the purpose of generating and selling energy. The purpose of 
investment is to purchase the electricity units for plants in Tamil Nadu state for captive consumption. The Company has 
classified this investment as financial instrument measured at fair value through statement of profit and loss.
27	 Consolidated segment information
Information reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of 
segment performance focuses on the types of goods or services delivered or provided. The Group is in the business of manufacture 
and sale of automobile components, which in the context of Ind AS - 108, “Operating Segments” represents a single reportable 
business segment. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the accounting policies disclosed in Note 2. The 
revenue, total expenses and net profit as per the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss represents the revenue, total expenses and 
the net profit of the sole reportable segment.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Geographical information	
	
	
The Group’s revenue from operations from external customers by location of operations and information about its non-current assets 
by location of assets are detailed below:
Revenue from Operations
 H in million
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Revenue from contract with customers
India
 85,406.72 
 75,819.36 
Outside India
 28,306.98 
 25,005.61 
Total
 113,713.70 
 100,824.97 
Other operating revenue
 1,894.40 
 1,583.74 
Total
 115,608.10 
 102,408.71 
Non current Assets*
 H in million
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
India
 24,192.17 
 21,251.09 
Outside India
 20,251.54 
 18,518.81 
Total
44,443.71
39,769.90
* Financial assets and deferred tax assets are excluded.
251 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
28 Contingent liabilities (to the extent not provided for)
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
a) 	 Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital 
	
account and not provided for (net of advances)
     	- 	
Property, plant and equipments
 3,443.71 
 2,738.73 
b) 	 Other commitments
   	 -  	 Subscription to the right issue of equity shares offered by TP Green Nature 
Limited
 - 
 53.82 
   	 -  	 Investment in equity shares of Dalavaipuram Renewables Private Limited
 2.08 
 - 
Total
 3,445.79 
 2,792.55 
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Employers contribution to provident fund/pension fund
 197.49 
 173.96 
Employers contribution to superannuation fund
 23.21 
 20.31 
Employers contribution to ESIC
 1.34 
 1.39 
Employers contribution to Labour welfare fund
 0.41 
 0.20 
Total
 222.45 
 195.86 
	
Note : Above contributions are included in the contribution to provident and other funds reported in note 21 of Employee 
benefits expense.
b) 	 Defined benefit plan:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The defined benefit plan comprises gratuity (included in contribution to provident and other funds in note 21). The present value 
of the obligation under such defined benefit plan is determined based on an actuarial valuation as at the reporting date using 
the Projected Unit Credit Method. The present value of accrued gratuity is provided in the books after reducing the fund value 
with Life Insurance Corporation of India.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
c) 	
Employees severance indemnity:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The actuarial valuation of Retirement Indemnity fund is made according to the “accrued benefit” methodology by means of 
the Projected Unit Credit Method. Such methodology is substantiated by evaluations accounting for current average value of 
pension bonds accrued on the basis of the worker’s service until the time when that evaluation is made.
29 Commitments
a) 	 Defined contribution plan:
30	 In conformity with the principles set out in the Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 19 Employee 
Benefits, details for defined contribution and benefit plans are given below:
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
a) Excise matters1
 49.88 
 50.15 
b) Service tax matters1
 1.37 
 1.37 
c) Goods and Service Tax matters1
 34.18 
 1.47 
d) Value Added Tax matters1
 6.65 
 3.41 
e) Income tax matters1
 468.09 
 466.08 
f) Employee related matters1
 4.42 
 1.22 
1 Future cash outflows, if any, in respect of these matters are determinable only on receipt of judgments / decisions pending at various stages before the 
appellate authorities. 
252  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
d) 	 Reconciliation of benefit obligation:
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Employees 
Severance 
Indemnity
Gratuity
Employees 
Severance 
Indemnity
Gratuity
Liability at the beginning of the year
 315.55 
 881.20 
 325.19 
 763.81 
Acquisition Adjustment
 32.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Interest cost
 11.66 
 61.17 
 8.85 
 55.93 
Current service cost
 34.97 
 74.52 
 28.68 
 66.74 
Benefit paid*
 (20.17)
 (63.26)*
 (55.52)
 (35.86)*
Remeasurement (gain) / loss on obligations
 (7.14)
 44.08 
 5.13 
 30.58 
Exchange variation
 9.69 
 - 
 3.22 
 - 
Liability at the end of the year
 377.22 
 997.71 
 315.55 
 881.20 
	
*Include amounts directly paid by the Group.
e) 	 Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets:
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
Domestic 
As at 
31st March, 2024 
Domestic
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
 756.26 
 574.92 
Interest income
 57.56 
 45.44 
Contributions
 73.28 
 169.90 
Benefits paid
 (23.52)
 (27.82)
Mortality Charges and Taxes
 (2.53)
 (2.63)
Return on plan assets - gain / (loss) 
 0.89 
 (3.55)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 861.94 
 756.26 
Actual return on plan assets 
 58.45 
 41.89 
f) 	
Amount to be recognised in Balance Sheet:	
	
	
	
	
	
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Foreign
Domestic
Foreign
Domestic
Employees 
Severance 
Indemnity
Gratuity
Employees 
Severance 
Indemnity
Gratuity
Liability at the end of the year
 377.22 
 997.71 
 315.55 
 881.20 
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 - 
 861.94 
 - 
 756.26 
Amount to be recognised in the balance sheet - 
Net liability
 377.22 
 135.77 
 315.55 
 124.94 
g) 	 Expenses recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss under the head employee benefits expense:	
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended  
31st March, 2025
For the year ended  
31st March, 2024
Foreign
Domestic
Foreign
Domestic
Current service cost
 34.97 
 74.52 
 28.68 
 66.74 
Interest cost
 11.66 
 3.61 
 8.85 
 10.48 
Mortality charges and taxes
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Expenses recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
 46.63 
 78.13 
 37.53 
 77.22 
253 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
h)	 In respect of funded benefits with respect to gratuity, the fair value of plan assets represents the amounts invested through 
“Insurer Managed Funds”.
i) 	
Remeasurement for the year
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended  
31st March, 2025
For the year ended  
31st March, 2024
Foreign
Domestic
Foreign
Domestic
Experience (gain)/ loss on plan liabilities
 (7.14)
 18.27 
 5.13 
 20.68 
Financial (gain)/ loss on plan liabilities 
 - 
 26.41 
 - 
 14.53 
Experience (gain)/ loss on plan assets
 - 
 (3.31)
 - 
 6.58 
Financial (gain)/ loss on plan assets
 - 
 2.40 
 - 
 (3.03)
j) 	
Amount recognised in statement of other comprehensive income (OCI)	 	
	
	
	
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended  
31st March, 2025
For the year ended  
31st March, 2024
Foreign
Domestic
Foreign
Domestic
Opening amount recognised in OCI 
 (6.50)
 166.59 
 (11.63)
 132.46 
Remeasurement for the year - obligation (gain)/ loss
 (7.14)
 44.08 
 5.13 
 30.58 
Remeasurement for the year - plan assets (gain)/ loss
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.55 
Total remeasurements cost / (credit) for the year 
recognised in OCI 
 (7.14)
 44.08 
 5.13 
 34.13 
Closing amount recognised in OCI 
 (13.64)
 210.67 
 (6.50)
 166.59 
k) 	 Principal actuarial assumptions:	
	
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Foreign
Domestic
Foreign
Domestic
Employees 
Severance 
Indemnity
Gratuity
Employees 
Severance 
Indemnity
Gratuity
Discount rate (i)
1.65%
6.70%
1.65%
7.20%
Rate of return on plan assets
 - 
7.20%
 - 
7.50%
Salary escalation for the next year (ii)
1.00%
7.00%
1.00%
7.00%
Withdrawal rate (iii)
4.00%
8.00%
4.00%
8.00%
	
i) 	
The discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Government securities / corporate bond rate as at the balance 
sheet date for the estimated terms of the obligations.
	
ii) 	
Salary escalation rate is the estimates of future salary increases considered taking into the account the inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors. 	
 
	
iii) 	
Withdrawal rate is employee’s turnover rate based on the Group’s past and expected employee turnover.
	
iv) 	
Disclosure related to indication of effect of the defined benefit plan on the entity’s future cash flows:
254  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
	
	
Expected benefit payments of gratuity for the years ending, assessed on 31st March, 2025
 H in million
Years ending
As at 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2026
 229.53 
31st March, 2027
 183.45 
31st March, 2028
 88.49 
31st March, 2029
 86.08 
31st March, 2030
 105.05 
31st March, 2031 to 31st March, 2035
 619.90 
	
	
Expected benefit payments of gratuity for the years ending, assessed on 31st March, 2024
 H in million
Years ending
As at 
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2025
 196.75 
31st March, 2026
 90.83 
31st March, 2027
 171.14 
31st March, 2028
 83.71 
31st March, 2029
 82.89 
31st March, 2030 to 31st March, 2034
 554.90 
	
(v) 	
Weighted Average duration of defined benefit obligation in form of gratuity: 9.76 years (Previous year 9.61 years)	
	
(vi) 	 Sensitivity analysis:
	
	
Sensitivity analysis indicates the influence of a reasonable change in principal assumptions, while keeping other things 
constant, on the outcome of the present value of Defined Benefit Obligation. In reality, the plan is subject to multiple 
external experience items which may move the Defined Benefit Obligation in similar or opposite directions, while the Plan’s 
sensitivity to such changes can vary over time.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at 31st March, 2025 is as shown below:
H in million
A. Effect of 1 % change in the assumed 
discount rate
1% Increase
1% Decrease
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
Defined Benefit Obligation (Domestic)
 940.06 
 830.53 
 1,048.94 
 929.27 
H in million
B. Effect of 1 % change in the assumed 
salary escalation rate
1% Increase
1% Decrease
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
Defined Benefit Obligation (Domestic)
 1,039.75 
 921.17 
 947.33 
 836.93 
H in million
C. Effect of 1 % change in the assumed 
withdrawal rate
1% Increase
1% Decrease
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
1. Defined Benefit Obligation (Domestic)
 990.43 
 877.40 
 992.57 
 876.86 
2. Defined Benefit Obligation (Foreign)
 377.99 
 264.73 
 375.32 
 288.59 
255 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million
Particulars
Carrying amount
Fair value 
As at 
31st March,2025 
As at 
31st March,2024
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
(a) 	Security deposits
 155.10 
 125.67 
 155.10 
 125.67 
(b) 	Trade receivables
 14,185.76 
 12,623.80 
 14,185.76 
 12,623.80 
(c) 	Loans to employees
 33.63 
 19.95 
 33.63 
 19.95 
(d) 	Interest accrued on deposits
 0.13 
 0.09 
 0.13 
 0.09 
(e) 	Receivables for sale of property, plant and 
equipment
 37.39 
 34.13 
 37.39 
 34.13 
(f) 	 Cash on hand
 1.13 
 1.84 
 1.13 
 1.84 
(g) 	Balance with banks in current account 
 10,187.90 
 5,044.84 
 10,187.90 
 5,044.84 
(h) 	 Balance held as margin money against borrowings
 0.01 
 0.12 
 0.01 
 0.12 
(i) 	 Deposits with bank with original maturity of more 
than 12 months
 - 
 1.00 
 - 
 1.00 
(j) 	 Deposits with bank with original maturity less 
than 12 months
 1.00 
 - 
 1.00 
 - 
(k) 	Government incentives receivable
 1,883.76 
 1,604.35 
 1,883.76 
 1,604.35 
(l) 	 Other financial assets
 61.93 
 92.05 
 61.93 
 92.05 
Financial assets measured at fair value through 
Statement of Profit and Loss 
(a) 	Current investments
 7,879.29 
 7,650.67 
 7,879.29 
 7,650.67 
(b) 	Non current investments quoted
 0.10 
 0.14 
 0.10 
 0.14 
(c) 	Foreign currency derivative assets
 0.39 
 1.25 
 0.39 
 1.25 
(d) 	Other non current investments
 47.64 
 22.45 
 47.64 
 22.45 
Financial assets measured at fair value through 
Other Comprehensive Income
(a) Other derivatives
 1.51 
 7.08 
 1.51 
 7.08 
(b) Other non-current investments
 109.02 
 252.64 
 109.02 
 252.64 
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
(a) 	Non current borrowings
 5,946.41 
 4,802.53 
 5,946.41 
 4,802.53 
(b) 	Non current lease liabilities
 286.02 
 164.89 
 286.02 
 164.89 
(c) 	Current borrowings
 3,092.23 
 2,595.29 
 3,092.23 
 2,595.29 
(d) 	 Current lease liabilities
 112.05 
 90.69 
 112.05 
 90.69 
(e) 	Security deposits received from dealers
 91.78 
 104.29 
 91.78 
 104.29 
(f) 	 Retention money
 41.49 
 24.69 
 41.49 
 24.69 
(g) 	Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 16.65 
 17.12 
 16.65 
 17.12 
H in million
D. Effect of 0.25 % change in the 
assumed discount rate
0.25% Increase
0.25% Decrease
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
Defined Benefit Obligation (Foreign)
 370.70 
 284.72 
 382.94 
 294.96 
H in million
E. Effect of 0.25 % change in the 
assumed salary escalation rate
0.25% Increase
0.25% Decrease
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
As at 31st 
March, 2025
As at 31st 
March, 2024
Defined Benefit Obligation (Foreign)
 381.24 
 293.54 
 372.29 
 286.06 
31 Fair Value measurements:
Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group's financials instruments.
256  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million
Particulars
Carrying amount
Fair value 
As at 
31st March,2025 
As at 
31st March,2024
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
(h) 	Payables on purchase of property, plant and 
equipment
 1,490.66 
 1,953.13 
 1,490.66 
 1,953.13 
(i) 	 Deferred payment liability
 141.70 
 991.07 
 141.70 
 991.07 
(j) 	 Trade payables
 19,742.59 
 16,044.66 
 19,742.59 
 16,044.66 
(k) 	Unpaid equity dividend
 0.44 
 0.42 
 0.44 
 0.42 
Financial liabilities measured at fair value 
through Statement of Profit and Loss
(a) 	Foreign currency derivative liabilities
 9.31 
 22.46 
 9.31 
 22.46 
Financial liabilities measured at fair value 
through Other Comprehensive Income
(a) 	Other derivative liabilities
 6.58 
 - 
 6.58 
 - 
The management assessed that the fair values of short term financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due 
to the short - term maturities of these instruments. The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the 
instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.	
The Group determines fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities by discounting the contractual cash inflows/outflows using 
prevailing interest rates of financials instruments with similar terms. The initial measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities is at fair 
value except trade receivables. The fair value of investment is determined using quoted net assets value from the fund/share market prices. 
Further, the subsequent measurement of all financial assets and liabilities (other than investment in mutual funds, equity shares and foreign 
currency derivatives) is at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
Discount rates used in determining fair value 	
The interest rate used to discount estimated future cash flows, where applicable, are based on the incremental borrowing rate of the 
borrower which in case of financial liabilities is the weighted average cost of borrowing of the Group and in case of financial assets is the 
average market rate of similar credit rated instrument.
The Group maintains policies and procedures to value financial assets or financial liabilities using the best and most relevant data 
available. In addition, the Group internally reviews valuation, including independent price validation for certain instruments
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an 
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or 
estimated using another valuation technique.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate fair value:	
(a) 	 Fair value of short term financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short term maturities 
of these instruments.
(b) 	 Fair value of quoted mutual funds is based on the net assets value at the reporting date. The fair value of other financial liabilities 
as well as other non current financial liabilities is estimated by discounting future cash flow using rate currently applicable for 
debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
(c) 	
The fair value of the Group’s interest bearing borrowing received are determined using discount rate that reflects the entity's 
borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The own non performance risk as at the reporting was assessed to 
be insignificant.
Fair Value Hierarchy
All financial instruments for which fair value is recognised or disclosed are categorised within the fair value hierarchy described as follows, based 
on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) price in active market for identical assets or liabilities 
Level 2: This level of hierarchy includes financial assets, measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that 
are observable for the asset, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices).
Level 3: Valuation technique for which the lowest level input has a significant effect on the fair value measurement is not based on 
observable market data
257 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
The following table presents our assets and liabilities measured at fair value on recurring basis at 31st March, 2025 and at 
31st March, 2024.
 H in million 
Particulars
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
31st March, 2025
Investments in mutual funds
 5,183.65 
 - 
 - 
Investments in short term funds
 - 
 536.99 
 - 
Investments in bonds
 2,158.65 
 - 
 - 
Equity
 97.67 
 - 
 58.77 
Other non current investments
 0.32 
 - 
 - 
Foreign currency derivative asset
 0.39 
 - 
 - 
Other derivative asset
 1.51 
 - 
 - 
Foreign currency derivative liability
 9.31 
 - 
 - 
Other derivative liability
 6.58 
 - 
 - 
31st March, 2024
Investments in mutual funds
 4,022.22 
 - 
 - 
Investments in short term funds
 - 
 1,386.00 
 - 
Investments in bonds
 2,242.45 
 - 
 - 
Equity
 241.33 
 - 
 33.59 
Other non current investments
 0.31 
 - 
 - 
Foreign currency derivative asset
 1.25 
 - 
 - 
Other derivative asset
 7.08 
 - 
 - 
Foreign currency derivative liability
 22.46 
 - 
 - 
Other derivative liability
 - 
 - 
 - 
32 Financial Instruments and Risk Review
I) 	
Capital Management	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group’s capital management objectives are:	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Board policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital employed on a quarterly basis.	
	
The Group manages capital risk by maintaining sound/optimal capital structure through monitoring of financial ratios, such as 
debt-to-equity ratio and net borrowings-to-equity ratio on a quarterly basis and implements capital structure improvement plan 
when necessary. 	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group uses debt ratio as a capital management index and calculates the ratio as net debt divided by total equity. Net debt 
and total equity are based on the amounts stated in the consolidated financial statements.
	
Debt-to-equity ratio is as follows:
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Gross Debt*
 9,436.71 
 7,653.40 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
 10,188.59 
 5,046.26 
Less: Current investments
 7,879.29 
 7,650.67 
Net Debt (A)
 (8,631.17)
 (5,043.53)
Equity (B)
 57,174.16 
 49,774.41 
Debt Ratio (A / B)
 (0.15)
 (0.10)
	
*Gross debt includes non current borrowings, current borrowings, current maturities of non current borrowings and right-of-use lease obligation.
258  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
II) 	 Financial Risk Management Framework
	
The Group is exposed primarily to market risk (fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate), credit risk, 
liquidity risk, which may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments. The Group assesses the unpredictability of 
the financial environment and seeks to mitigate potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group.
	
i) 	
Credit Risk
	
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay or service debt according to contractual 
terms. Credit risk encompasses, the risk of default, the risk of deterioration of creditworthiness of the counterparty as well 
as concentration of risks. 
	
	
Financial instruments that are subject to exposure to credit risk consist of trade receivables, investments and other financial assets.
	
	
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading 
to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from operating activities, primarily from trade receivables.	
	
	
Trade receivables
	
	
Trade receivables consist of receivables arising primarily due to sale of goods.  These receivables are unsecured and are 
payable at the end of a specified credit period depending upon the terms of contract of each customer, which ranges 
from 30-60 days for customers in India and 30-120 days for overseas customers. The Group’s customers primarily consist of 
Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEM”) for its primary products and Dealers for spare parts. 
	
	
The Group assesses the credit risk of its customers and dealers at the time of acceptance of the customer as well as on an 
ongoing basis. Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an external/internal credit scoring system to assess the 
potential customer’s credit quality and defines credit limits by customer. The credit limit of these customers and dealers is 
continuously monitored and recalibrated based on the credit risk assessment. Most of the OEM’s have high credit ratings 
which helps the Group mitigate credit risk.
	
	
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a trade receivable or a group of trade receivables is impaired.  The 
Group recognises lifetime expected credit losses for all trade receivables that do not constitute a financing transaction 
and which are due for more than six months.  The expected credit losses are measured at an amount equal to 12 months 
expected credit losses or at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses if the credit risk on the financial asset 
has increased significantly since initial recognition. The Group uses a practical expedient by computing the expected credit 
loss allowance for trade receivables based on a provision matrix.	
	
	
Ageing of trade receivable is as given below:
 
 H in million 
Particulars
Not due
Within 365 
days*
More than 365 
days*
Total
31st March, 2025
Estimated total gross carrying amount
 11,732.18 
 2,544.99 
 90.81 
 14,367.98 
ECL - Simplified approach
 - 
 (112.13)
 (70.09)
 (182.22)
Net carrying amount
 11,732.18 
 2,432.86 
 20.72 
 14,185.76 
 
 H in million 
Particulars
Not due
Within 365 
days*
More than 365 
days*
Total
31st March, 2024
Estimated total gross carrying amount
 8,329.18 
 4,325.47 
 62.74 
 12,717.39 
ECL - Simplified approach
 - 
 (50.32)
 (43.27)
 (93.59)
Net carrying amount
 8,329.18 
 4,275.15 
 19.47 
 12,623.80 
* Provision is made for receivables where recovery is considered doubtful irrespective of due date. Where an amount is 
outstanding for more than 365 days the Group usually provides for the same unless there is clear visibility of recovery.
259 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
	
	
The Movement in the expected credit loss allowance is as given below:
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 93.59 
 91.77 
Addition due to acquisition
 6.27 
 - 
Movement in the expected credit loss allowance on trade receivables 
calculated at lifetime expected credit losses (Refer note 39)
 85.56 
 1.04 
Exchange variation
 (3.20)
 0.78 
Balance at the end of the year
 182.22 
 93.59 
	
	
The Group’s exposure to customers is diversified and some customers contribute more than 10% of outstanding accounts 
receivable which forms 46% of total receivables as of 31st March, 2025 (52% as at previous year), however there was no 
default on account of those customers in the past.
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
The Group considers the trade receivables to have low risk of defaults since the customers have strong capacity to fulfil 
their obligations and even if there are adverse changes in economic and business conditions, the Group is of the view that 
it will not adversely affect the ability of the customers to fulfil their obligations.
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
The Group considers write-off of receivables on case to case basis, depending upon the circumstances of each delayed 
receivable, and when the Group is of the view that recovery seems unlikely after reasonable efforts. 
	
	
The maturity profile of trade receivables is as given below:
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Less than 1 Year
1-5 Years
Less than 1 Year
1-5 Years
Non-derivative financial assets
Trade receivables
 14,185.76 
 - 
 12,623.80 
 - 
Total
 14,185.76 
 - 
 12,623.80 
 - 
	
	
Investments and other financial assets	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Investments consist mainly of investments in mutual funds, insurance premium and short term funds. Other financial assets 
consist of Government incentives receivable, export incentives and security deposits for business purposes.	
	
	
Investments in mutual funds are primarily those instruments which have been approved by the management and are in 
low-risk category and are continuously monitored by the management. The Group considers credit risk in investments as 
well as in other financial assets to be very low.
	
ii) 	
Liquidity Risk	 	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may not be in a position to meet its financial liabilities.  The objective of liquidity 
risk management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and to ensure availability of adequate funds for business.  The Group 
generates sufficient internal accruals and generally the purpose of borrowings is to meet temporary fund flow mismatches 
and to meet regular capital expenditures.  The Group maintains a very low debt to equity ratio.
	
	
The maturity profile of various financial liabilities is as given below. These amounts have been drawn up based on the 
undiscounted cash flows of various financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
260  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Less than 1 Year
1-5 Years
Less than 1 Year
1-5 Years
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
 19,742.59 
 - 
 16,044.66 
 - 
Other financial liabilities 
 1,598.65 
 199.96 
 2,118.38 
 994.80 
Working capital demand loans / term loans
 3,092.23 
 5,946.41 
 2,595.29 
 4,802.53 
Right to use lease liabilities
 112.05 
 286.02 
 90.69 
 164.89 
Total
 24,545.52 
 6,432.39 
 20,849.02 
 5,962.22 
	
iii) 	 Market Risk 	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market prices.  Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk like commodity 
prices risk.	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
1) 	
Interest rate risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily 
to the Group’s debt obligations which have floating rate indebtedness.  The Group also maintain deposits of cash and 
cash equivalents with banks and other financial institutions which are subject to periodic resets.
	
	
	
Interest rate sensitivity
	
	
	
The sensitivity analysis below demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change in interest rates on the 
debt obligations of the Group and on the cash and cash equivalents.
 H in million
For the year ended
Currency
Increase / 
decrease in 
basis points
 Effect 
on profit 
before tax 
Financial 
statement 
item 
 Variable rate 
WCDL / CC 
balance / ECB 
31st March, 2025
INR
+100
 (66.44)
Debt 
obligation
 6,801.52 
INR
-100
 66.44 Debt 
obligation
 6,801.52 
31st March, 2024
INR
+100
 (58.47)
Debt 
obligation
 5,895.00 
INR
-100
 58.47 Debt 
obligation
 5,895.00 
	
	
2) 	
Foreign Currency exchange rate risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Foreign currency  exchange rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will 
fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.  The Group is exposed to currency risk of changes in EUR, 
USD, CHF, CNY, GBP, SGD and JPY.  However, the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates on the statement of profit 
or loss and other comprehensive income is not material. The Group has an exposure to changes in foreign exchange 
(primarily EURO) on account of its investments in its subsidiaries.	
	
	
	
Wherever, transactions are undertaken in foreign currency, the Group hedges the risk of foreign exchange fluctuation 
by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk management policies. The investment in subsidiaries 
being long term in nature is unhedged. The information on foreign currency derivatives are given in sub note 4. The 
information on unhedged foreign currency exposures are as follows:
261 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
	
Foreign currency exposures that are not hedged by derivative instruments
Particulars
Currency
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Foreign Currency 
Notional Amount 
(in million)
Rupees 
(in million)
Foreign Currency 
Notional Amount 
(in million)
Rupees 
(in million)
I. 	 Current investments
USD
 4.82 
 445.43 
 6.62 
 551.75 
 445.43 
 551.75 
II. 	 Trade receivables
USD
 0.59 
 50.84 
 1.21 
 100.70 
EUR
 1.17 
 108.53 
 2.96 
 265.99 
 159.37 
 366.69 
III. 	Trade payables and capital 
creditors
USD
 (0.88)
 (75.59)
 (0.37)
 (30.92)
EUR
 (0.09)
 (8.62)
 (0.28)
 (25.35)
GBP
 (0.02)
 (1.72)
 (0.01)
 (0.75)
CNY
 (1.96)
 (23.04)
 (0.06)
 (0.69)
JPY
 (0.25)
 (0.14)
 - 
 - 
 (109.11)
 (57.70)
Total
USD
 4.53 
 420.68 
 7.45 
 621.53 
EUR
 1.08 
 99.91 
 2.68 
 240.65 
GBP
 (0.02)
 (1.72)
 (0.01)
 (0.75)
CNY
 (1.96)
 (23.04)
 (0.06)
 (0.69)
JPY
 (0.25)
 (0.14)
 - 
 - 
	
Foreign Currency Sensitivity	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The following tables demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change in USD, EUR, GBP, CNY and JPY exchange 
rates, with all other variables held constant, the impact on the Group’s profit before tax due to changes in the fair value of 
monetary assets and liabilities is given below. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies 
is not material.
 H in million
For the year ended
Currency
Change in rate
Effect on pre-tax 
equity
31st March, 2025
USD
+10%
 42.07 
USD
-10%
 (42.07)
EUR
+10%
 9.99 
EUR
-10%
 (9.99)
GBP
+10%
 (0.17)
GBP
-10%
 0.17 
CNY
+10%
 (2.30)
CNY
-10%
 2.30 
JPY
+10%
 (0.01)
JPY
-10%
 0.01 
31st March, 2024
USD
+10%
 62.15 
USD
-10%
 (62.15)
EUR
+10%
 24.06 
EUR
-10%
 (24.06)
GBP
+10%
 (0.08)
GBP
-10%
 0.08 
CNY
+10%
 (0.07)
CNY
-10%
 0.07 
262  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
	
3) 	
Commodity Price Risk
	
	
The Group is exposed to risks in fluctuation of prices of certain raw materials, which are used as key inputs in the production 
process, especially ferrous and non-ferrous metals.  Historically, as a practice, and as per our understanding with customers, 
the Group has passed on an increase in the cost of metals, especially aluminium and steel to its customers and does 
not foresee a significant risk to its statement of profit and loss on account of fluctuations in the prices of materials. 
The Group is further exposed to risks in fluctuation of certain costs of production. It hedges a part of these risks by using 
commodities swap instruments in line with its risk management policies. Refer sub note 4 below.
	
4) 	
Derivative financial instruments:
	
	
The Group has entered into foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity swaps to manage its 
exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity price risk. The counterparty is generally 
a bank. These financial exposures are managed in accordance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures. 
The information on derivative instruments is as follows:
Particulars
Currency
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Foreign Currency 
Notional Amount
(in million)
Rupees 
(in million)
Foreign Currency 
Notional Amount
(in million) 
Rupees 
(in million)
Forward contract - USD-INR
USD
 5.48 
 468.05 
 3.81 
 318.10 
 No. of Contracts 
 33 
 23 
Forward contract -  JPY -INR
JPY
 196.42 
 111.92 
 11.68 
 6.43 
 No. of Contracts 
 4 
 1 
Forward contract -  EUR - INR
EUR
 0.41 
 37.93 
 2.36 
 212.33 
 No. of Contracts 
 4 
 16 
Forward contract -  CNY -INR
CNY
 1.28 
 15.07 
 0.26 
 2.99 
 No. of Contracts 
 5 
 1 
Interest rate swaps
EUR
 17.94 
 1,657.98 
 11.59 
 1,071.05 
No. of Contracts 
 4 
 3 
Interest rate cap
EUR
 3.13 
 288.85 
 2.00 
 184.87 
 No. of Contracts 
 1 
 1 
	
	
Maturity of outstanding interest rate swaps:
 
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Notional in EUR 
million
MTM Gain / 
(Loss) Rupees 
(in million)
Notional in EUR 
million
MTM Gain / 
(Loss) Rupees 
(in million)
Not later than 3 months
 1.28 
 (0.17)
 0.91 
 0.52 
Later than 3 months and not later than 6 
months
 1.28 
 (0.17)
 0.91 
 0.52 
Later than 6 months and not later than 1 
year
 2.57 
 (0.03)
 1.83 
 1.05 
Later than 1 year and not later than 2 year
 4.13 
 (0.55)
 3.65 
 2.10 
Later than 2 year and not later than 3 year
 3.12 
 (0.41)
 2.65 
 1.52 
Later than 3 year and not later than 4 year
 1.48 
 (0.20)
 1.64 
 0.94 
Later than 4 year and not later than 5 year
 1.48 
 (0.20)
 - 
 - 
Later than 5 year 
 2.59 
 (0.45)
 - 
 - 
263 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
	
	
Maturity of outstanding interest rate caps:
 
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Notional in 
EUR million
MTM Gain / 
(Loss) Rupees 
(in million)
Notional in 
EUR million
MTM Gain / 
(Loss) Rupees 
(in million)
Not later than 3 months
 0.63 
 (0.48)
 0.31 
 0.06 
Later than 3 months and not later than 6 months
 0.63 
 (0.48)
 0.31 
 0.06 
Later than 6 months and not later than 1 year
 1.25 
 (0.96)
 0.38 
 0.08 
Later than 1 year and not later than 2 year
 0.63 
 (0.96)
 1.00 
 0.20 
	
	
Impact of hedging activities
	
a) 	
Disclosure of hedge accounting on financial position:
 H in million
Particulars		
Nominal 
Value 
EUR 
million
Carrying amount 
of hedging 
instrument 
J Million
 Hedge 
Ratio 
Changes in 
fair value 
of hedging 
instrument
Changes in the value 
of hedged item 
used as a basis for 
recognising hedge 
effectiveness
As at 31st March, 2025
Interest rate swaps
 17.94 
 (2.18)
 1 : 8 
 (8.88)
 (8.88)
Interest rate caps
 3.13 
 (2.89)
 1 : 18 
 (3.46)
 (3.46)
As at 31st March, 2024
Interest rate swaps
 11.59 
 6.67 
 1 : 6 
 (12.59)
 (12.59)
Interest rate caps
 2.00 
 0.41 
 1 : 37 
 (0.44)
 (0.44)
	
b) 	
Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial performance:
 H in million
Particulars
 Changes in the 
value of the 
hedging instrument 
recognised in other 
comprehensive income 
 Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
profit or loss 
Amount 
reclassified 
from cash flow 
hedging reserve 
to profit or loss
Line item affected 
in the Statement of 
Profit or loss because 
of the reclassification
For the year ended  
31st March, 2025
Interest rate swaps
 0.62 
 - 
 (9.97)
Finance costs
Interest rate caps
 (3.11)
 - 
 - 
Finance costs
Commodity swaps
 - 
-
 (98.99)
Other expenses
For the year ended  
31st March, 2024
Interest rate swaps
1.86
- 
 (14.43)
Finance costs
Interest rate caps
 -
- 
 (0.44)
Commodity swaps
(17.27)
- 
 (200.82)
Other expenses
264  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
	
	
Movements in cash flow hedging reserve
 H in million
Derivative Instruments
Commodity 
Swap
Interest rate 
swap
Interest rate 
cap
 Total 
Cash Flow Hedge reserve
Balance - As at 1st April, 2023
 231.33 
 14.48 
 0.64 
 246.45 
Add: change in intrinsic value of instrument
 (17.27)
 1.86 
 - 
 (15.41)
Less: Amount reclassified to P&L
 (200.82)
 (14.43)
 (0.44)
 (215.68)
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)
 60.85 
 3.02 
 0.11 
 63.97 
Translation difference
 1.99 
 0.14 
 (0.01)
 2.12 
As at 31st March, 2024
 76.08 
 5.07 
 0.30 
 81.46 
Add: change in intrinsic value of instrument
 - 
 0.62 
 (3.11)
 (2.49)
Less: Amount reclassified to P&L
 (98.99)
 (9.97)
 - 
 (108.96)
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)
 27.62 
 2.24 
 0.75 
 30.61 
Translation difference
 0.76 
 0.11 
 (0.14)
 0.73 
Balance - As at 31st March, 2025
 5.48 
 (1.93)
 (2.20)
 1.35 
 Shares in numbers 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
a) 	 Earnings for the purpose of basic / diluted earnings per share - Net profit after 
tax (H in million)
 8,363.53 
 6,804.88 
b) 	 Weighted number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share
 14,06,62,848 
 14,06,62,848 
c) 	 Weighted number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per 
share
 14,06,62,848 
 14,06,62,848 
d) 	 Nominal value of equity shares H each
 10.00 
 10.00 
e) 	 Basic and diluted earnings per share H each
 59.46 
 48.38 
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
As at 1st April
 255.58 
 314.39 
Additions
 239.95 
 79.27 
Deletions, modifications and adjustments during the year
 (3.44)
 - 
Accretion of interest
 11.87 
 12.69 
Payments
 (109.98)
 (152.71)
Translation differences
 4.09 
 1.94 
As at end of the year
 398.07 
 255.58 
Current
 112.05 
 90.69 
Non current
 286.02 
 164.89 
The maturity analysis of lease liability is disclosed in note 11.02.
The effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 8 ~ 9% for leases in India and 0.90% for leases in Italy and 0.99% for leases in Germany, 
with maturity between 2026-2031
33 Earnings per share (EPS)	
34 Group as lessee
Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements during the period:
265 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
The following are the amounts recognized in the statement of profit or loss:
 H in million 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets
 153.48 
 169.20 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 11.87 
 12.69 
Total amount recognized in profit or loss
 165.35 
 181.89 
35 - Related Party Disclosure
(For the year ended 31st March, 2025)		
Key Management Personnel (KMP) has been identified as per Ind AS - 24
a) 	
List of Related Parties and nature of relationships
S.No
Description of Relationship
Name of Related Party/Persons
1
Key Management Personnel 
Mr. Soumendra Basu, Chairman
Mr. Anurang Jain, Managing Director
Mrs. Varsha Jain, Director and Head – CSR and Facility Management
Mr. Ramesh Gehaney, Director and COO (upto 5th June, 2024)
Mr. Rajendra Abhange, Director and COO (w.e.f. 6th June, 2024)
Mr. Massimo Venuti, Non-executive Director
Mr. Satrajit Ray, Director and Group CFO (upto 5th June, 2024), Non-executive 
Director (w.e.f. 6th June, 2024) 
Ms. Anjali Seth, Independent Director
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee, Independent Director
Mr. Anant Talaulicar, Independent Director
Mr. Roberto Testore, Independent Director (upto 31st August, 2024)
Mr. Alfredo Altavilla, Independent Director (w.e.f. 1st September, 2024)
Mr. R.S. Raja Gopal Sastry, Group CFO (w.e.f. 6th June, 2024)
2
Relatives of Key 
Management Personnel with 
whom transactions have 
taken place
Mr. Naresh Chandra (family trustee of Anurang Rhea Trust) - Father of Mr. Anurang 
Jain
Mrs. Suman Nareshchandra Jain (family trustee of NC Trust) - Mother of Mr. Anurang Jain
Mrs. Varsha Jain - Wife of Mr. Anurang Jain
Mrs. Rhea Jain Kapoor - Daughter of Mr. Anurang Jain
Mr. Rohan Jain - Son of Mr. Anurang Jain
b)	
Transactions carried out with the related parties in ordinary course of business (Previous year figures are in brackets)
 H in million
Nature of Transactions
 Key Management 
Personnel 
 Relatives of Key 
Management 
personnel 
 Total 
Remuneration - Short Term Employee Benefits
 435.73 
 17.37 
 453.10 
 (387.95)
 (13.76)
 (401.71)
Post employment and other long term benefits*
 17.86 
 - 
 17.86 
 (17.23)
 - 
 (17.23)
Directors' sitting fees
 4.26 
 - 
 4.26 
 (3.30)
 - 
 (3.30)
Directors' commission
 19.90 
 - 
 19.90 
 (13.05)
 - 
 (13.05)
Lease rent expense
 12.24 
 - 
 12.24 
 (12.06)
 - 
 (12.06)
Reimbursement of travelling and other expenses
 3.26 
 1.69 
 4.95 
 (4.76)
 (2.62)
 (7.39)
During the year the Group had total cash outflows for leases of C 109.98 million (previous year C 152.71 million). The Group also had 
non-cash additions to right-of-use assets and lease liabilities of C 239.95 million (previous year C 79.27 million).
266  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million
Nature of Transactions
 Key Management 
Personnel 
 Relatives of Key 
Management 
personnel 
 Total 
Dividend paid
 609.42 ^
 287.30 #
 896.73 
 (501.88)
 (236.60)
 (738.48)
Balances Outstanding as at the end of the year
 
 
i) 	 Payables
 54.90
 - 
 54.90
 (67.00)
 (0.27)
 (67.28)
ii) 	 Travel advance
 2.35 
 0.88 
 3.23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iii) 	 Security deposit receivable
 2.63 
 - 
 2.63 
 (2.56)
 - 
 (2.56)
*Post employment benefits payable in the form of gratuity and other long term benefits in the form of compensated absences are calculated on the basis of 
actuarial valuation. Amount payable to executive directors in India and their relatives as at 31st March, 2025 (31st March, 2024) cannot be separately identified and 
therefore has not been included in above. There are no share based payments given to Key Management Personnel and their relatives.
^ Includes H 240.55 million (H 198.10 million) dividend received by Mr. Anurang Jain in his capacity as family trustee of Anurang Rohan Trust.
# Includes H 143.74 million (H 118.37 million) dividend received by Mr. Naresh Chandra in his capacity as family trustee of Anurang Rhea Trust.
# Includes H 143.57 million (H 118.23 million) dividend received by Mrs. Suman Jain in her capacity as family trustee of NC Trust.
36 	 Government incentives:
a) 	 Industrial Promotion Subsidy: (Refer note 18.01)
	
The Company recognises grant income under the Package Scheme of Incentives, Government of Maharashtra (“PSI Scheme”) 
on sale of goods, as management believes that the realisation of the grant income is reasonably certain. The total grant income 
recognized during the year is H 741.89 million (previous year is H 792.35 million).
	
Incentive under Mega Project Scheme - PSI 2019:
	
The Company has recognized an amount of H 381.28 million (previous year Nil ) as grant income under Mega Project scheme PSI 
2019 for the year ended 31st March, 2025.
	
Incentive under Mega Project Scheme - PSI 2013:
	
The Company has recognized an amount of H 358.77 million (previous year H 785.56 million) as grant income under Mega Project 
scheme PSI 2013 for the year ended 31st March, 2025.
	
The Company has also recognized H 1.84 million (previous year H 6.79 million) against balance related to PSI 2007 scheme.
b) 	 Export incentive (Refer note 18.01):
	
The Company has recognized H 16.09 million (previous year H 19.30 million) as export incentive under RODTEP scheme and 
H 29.76 million (previous year H 29.82 million) under duty drawback scheme. 
	
Further the Company also recognized H Nil (previous year H 1.26 million) as incentive under advance authorisation licence scheme.
37	 Government grants in overseas subsidiaries (Refer note 18.01):
	
In case of EOSPA, during the current year, amount recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss of H 97.09 million (previous 
year H 106.54 million) against the capex grant. Further, grant of H Nil (previous year H 5.73 million) is recognised in the form of tax 
credits on incremental R&D expenditure;  H 9.41 million (previous year H 18.29 million) is recognised for solar power utilization 
and surplus energy produced.
267 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
38	 Subsequent events
i)	
Subsequent to the year end, the Board of Directors of the company, as its meeting held on 9th April 2025, have approved an 
acquisition of additional 52749 equity shares of face value of Re. 1 each at a premium of H 1421, in its subsidiary viz., Maxwell 
Energy Systems Private Limited (‘Maxwell’).  
	
In this regard, the company has executed a Share Purchase Agreement (‘SPA’) dated 8th May 2025 with the relevant parties, to 
inter alia, acquire the remaining entire 38.50% stake at a negotiated upfront cash consideration of approx. H 75.01 million. 
	
This is subject to the covenants and conditions precedent to the closing. The transaction is expected to be completed within 45 
days from the date of SPA.
	
Post this stake acquisition, Maxwell will become a wholly owned subsidiary of the company. 
	
The objective of this transaction is to have full control over Maxwell that will enable the company to extract more synergies in 
the electronics and automotive business. 
ii)	
On 15th May, 2025, the Board of Directors of the Company have proposed a dividend of H 10 per equity share of face value H 10 
each in respect of the year ended 31st March, 2025. The dividend payout is subject to approval of the shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting.
	
During the current year, final dividend for the year ended 31st March, 2024 was declared and paid at H 8.50 per equity share of 
face value H 10 each.
iii)	
Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy, a subsidiary of the Company, signed a Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) dated 12th December, 
2024 to acquire 60% stake in Stoferle Automotive GmbH, Germany and Stoferle GmbH, Germany (Target companies), for a 
cash consideration of EUR 37.74 million. On 2nd April, 2025 upon receipt of regulatory approvals, EOSPA paid the agreed 
consideration and acquired 60% stake in Target companies. With this, the Target companies became the subsidiaries of EOSPA 
with effect from 2nd April, 2025. The SPA includes ‘CALL and PUT options’ for acquiring the remaining 40% stake in the Target 
companies, which shall be exercised over a period of five years commencing from June 2026. Target companies manufacture 
machined aluminium castings for automotive applications and production of CNC machines for captive use.
39	 Exceptional Items	
(a) 	 Separation Scheme:
	
On February 10, 2025, the Company announced a Voluntary Separation Scheme (VSS) for all eligible permanent workmen at 
its plant located at L-6/3, Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar, Maharashtra with separation of 57 employees. Additionally, as part of 
the restructuring operations at its plant in Endurance GmbH, Germany, the Company laid off six employees. In this regard, 
the Company has recognized a separation cost of H 142.00 million as an exceptional item during the quarter and year ended 
31st March, 2025.
(b) 	 Provision for expected credit loss of trade receivables: 
	
During the current financial year, Hero Electric was admitted under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (Code), and a 
Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process was initiated. Additionally, three of our customers, part of the KTM group in Austria, filed 
for insolvency and the Court admitted restructuring with self-administration. Considering these developments, the Company 
has made a provision for the expected credit loss of trade receivables amounting to H 67.24 million.
(c)	
Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited (Maxwell):
	
(i)	
Consequent to the execution of Share Purchase Agreement for purchase of 38.50% of shares in Maxwell for H 75.01 million, 
the deferred consideration liability in respect of Maxwell to the extent not expected to be paid amounting to H 912.68 
million has been derecognized and disclosed as an exceptional item.
	
(ii) 	
The Group, based on the valuation report received from an independent valuer, has impaired goodwill by H 581.67 million 
and disclosed as an exceptional item.
40	 The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post employment benefits 
received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. However, the date on 
which the Code will come into effect has not been notified and the final rules/interpretation have not yet been issued. The 
Group will assess the impact of the Code when it comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period the Code 
becomes effective.
268  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 H in million
Name of the entity
Net assets
Share in profit or loss
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As a % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As a % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
As a % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As a % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
Holding company
Endurance 
Technologies Limited
76.05%
 43,480.09 
81.15%
 6,786.59 
-70.77%  (164.07)
77.05%
 6,622.52 
Foreign subsidiaries
Endurance GmbH
7.46%
 4,263.73 
2.67%
 223.29 
1.75%
 4.05 
2.64%
 227.34 
Endurance Overseas 
SpA*
23.46%
13,411.94 
19.28%
 1,612.08 
-20.33%
 (47.14)
18.21%
 1,564.94 
Domestic subsidiary
Maxwell Energy 
Systems Private Limited
0.19%
 106.74 
-2.01%
(168.07)
0.18%
0.42
-1.95%
(167.65)
Consolidation 
adjustments
-7.16%
(4,088.34)
-1.08%
 (90.36)
189.17%
 438.59 
4.05%
 348.23 
Total
100.00%
57,174.16 
100.00%
8,363.53 
100.00%
 231.85 
100.00%
8,595.38 
*Includes its subsidiaries viz. Endurance SpA, Endurance Castings SpA, Endurance Engineering Srl, Endurance Two Wheelers SpA, Veicoli Srl, Ingenia 
Automation and GDS Sarl
b) 	 As at and for the year ended 31st March, 2024:
 H in million
Name of the entity
Net assets
Share in profit or loss
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As a % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As a % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
As a % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As a % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
Holding company
Endurance 
Technologies Limited
76.45%
38,053.20 
86.38%
 5,877.93 
89.45%
 (149.50)
86.30%
 5,728.43 
Foreign subsidiaries
Endurance GmbH
7.89%
 3,927.62 
0.92%
 62.74 
4.31%
 (7.21)
0.84%
 55.53 
Endurance Overseas 
SpA*
24.71%
12,292.81 
17.53%
 1,193.35 
135.18%
 (225.92)
14.57%
 967.43 
Domestic subsidiary
Maxwell Energy 
Systems Private 
Limited
0.55%
274.37
-3.02%
 (205.31)
-1.56%
 2.61 
-3.05%
 (202.70)
Consolidation 
adjustments
-9.60%
(4,773.59)
-1.81%
 (123.83)
-127.38%
 212.90 
1.34%
 89.07 
Total
100.00%
49,774.41 
100.00%
6,804.88 
100.00%
(167.12)
100.00%
6,637.76 
*Includes its subsidiaries viz. Endurance SpA, Endurance Castings SpA, Endurance Engineering Srl, Endurance Adler Srl, Veicoli Srl, Frenotecnica Srl, New Fren 
Srl and GDS Sarl.
41	 Disclosure of additional information as required by the Schedule III :
a) 	 As at and for the year ended 31st March, 2025:
269 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
42	 Ind AS 105 - "Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations"" requires non-current assets to be identified 
as held for sale if the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing 
use. For this to be the case, the assets must be available for immediate sale in its present condition and the sale must be 
highly probable.
	
During the previous year, based on the assessment performed by the management, it was determined that the below assets 
situated at village Takve BK, Taluka Maval, District Pune, should be presented as held for sale under Ind AS 105. Consequently, 
the assets held for sale have been presented separately from other assets in the balance sheet.
	
During the current year, on 9th October, 2024, the company has sold land, building and other assets, which were classified as 
asset held for sale as on 31st March, 2024.
 H in million 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
A) 	Assets
	
Non-current assets 
	
Freehold land 
 - 
 52.59 
	
Building 
 - 
 53.05 
	
Plant and equipment
 - 
 0.04 
	
Furniture & fixtures 
 - 
 0.05 
Total Assets classified as held for sale 
 - 
 105.73 
B) 	Liabilities
	
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale
 - 
 - 
Total Liabilities associated with assets held for sale
 - 
 - 
C) 	Net Assets associated with disposal group
 - 
 105.73 
43	 Other statutory information:
(i)	
The Group does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Group for 
holding any Benami property under Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 and rules made thereunder.
(ii)	
There are no transactions with the struck off companies during the current year and previous year.
(iii)	
The Group does not have any charges or satisfaction which are yet to be registered with Registrar of Companies (ROC) beyond 
the statutory period.
(iv)	
The Group has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
(v)	
The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person or entity, including foreign entities (Intermediaries) 
with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
a.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
b.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(vi)	
The Group have not received any fund from any person or entity, including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the understanding 
(whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall:
	
a.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
b.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(vii)	 The Group does not have any such transaction which is  not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or 
disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or any 
other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
270  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
(viii)	 The Group has not been declared a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender (as defined under 
the Companies Act, 2013) or consortium thereof, in accordance with the guidelines on wilful defaulters issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India.
(ix)	
The Group has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on the current or previous 
financial year.
(x)	
The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
44 	 The figures for the corresponding previous year have been regrouped / reclassified wherever necessary to make them comparable.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
	
Soumendra Basu	
Anurang Jain
	
Chairman	
Managing Director
	
(DIN : 01125409)	
(DIN : 00291662)
per Mustafa Saleem	
R S Raja Gopal Sastry	
Sunil Lalai
Partner	
Group CFO	
Company Secretary & Executive 
Membership No.: 136969	
	
Vice President–Legal
	
	
(Membership No :  A8078)
Date: 15th May, 2025	
Date: 15th May, 2025
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Mumbai   
271 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
(Amount in H million except % of shareholding)
Sl. 
no.
Name of the 
subsidiary
Financial 
period ended
Reporting currency and Exchange rate
Share 
capital
Reserves & 
surplus
Total 
assets
Total 
Liabilities
Investments
Turnover
Profit 
before 
taxation
Provision 
for 
taxation
Profit 
after 
taxation
Proposed 
Dividend
% of 
share 
holding
1.       
Endurance 
Overseas SpA, 
Italy@
31st March, 
2025
1 EURO: INR 92.4310  
(for balance sheet items); 
1 EURO: INR 90.7336 (for P&L items);
1,488.63 
4,381.09 
14,002.62 
8,132.90 
6,029.65 
1,111.50 
1,184.19 
39.26 
1,144.93 
-
100 (#)
2.       
Endurance SpA, 
Italy*
31st March, 
2025
1 EURO: INR 92.4310  
(for balance sheet items); 
1 EURO: INR 90.7336 (for P&L items);
462.16 
7,931.37 
26,131.13 
17,737.60 
0.03 
18,368.78 
1,577.27 
289.60 
1,287.67 
-
100.00
3.       
Endurance 
Engineering SrL, 
Italy*
31st March, 
2025
1 EURO: INR 92.4310  
(for balance sheet items); 
1 EURO: INR 90.7336 (for P&L items);
9.24 
571.63 
906.33 
325.45 
0.00 
911.38 
83.66 
14.91 
68.75 
-
100.00
4.       
Endurance 
Castings SpA, 
Italy*
31st March, 
2025
1 EURO: INR 92.4310  
(for balance sheet items); 
1 EURO: INR 90.7336 (for P&L items);
83.19 
1,067.33 
3,062.56 
1,912.04 
0.19 
4,252.03 
204.36 
33.59 
170.77 
-
100.00
5.       
Endurance Two 
Wheelers SpA, 
Italy*
31st March, 
2025
1 EURO: INR 92.4310  
(for balance sheet items); 
1 EURO: INR 90.7336 (for P&L items);
77.64 
774.44 
1,516.87 
664.78 
0.06 
1,532.30 
43.23 
(12.98)
56.21 
-
100.00
6.       
Veicoli SrL, Italy*
31st March, 
2025
1 EURO: INR 92.4310  
(for balance sheet items); 
1 EURO: INR 90.7336 (for P&L items);
46.22 
183.47 
301.32 
71.63 
0.00
203.54 
44.00 
8.37 
35.63 
-
100.00
7.
Ingenia 
Automation Srl*
31st March, 
2025
1 EURO: INR 92.4310  
(for balance sheet items); 
1 EURO: INR 90.7336 (for P&L items);
0.95 
201.99 
1,260.60 
1,057.66 
0.00
781.98 
42.07 
21.56 
20.52 
-
100.00
8.
GDS Sarl, Tunisia**
31st March, 
2025
1 EURO: INR 92.4310  
(for balance sheet items); 
1 EURO: INR 90.7336 (for P&L items);
0.28 
0.28 
0.59 
0.03 
0.00
69.01 
(6.16)
0.01 
(6.17)
-
100.00
9.       
Endurance GmbH, 
Germany
31st March, 
2025
1 EURO: INR 92.4310  
(for balance sheet items); 
1 EURO: INR 90.7336 (for P&L items);
1,086.68 
3,121.24 
5,473.67 
1,265.75 
0.00
5,500.97 
180.01 
0.00
180.01 
-
100.00
10.
Maxwell Energy 
Systems Private 
Limited, India
31st March, 
2025
INR
0.14 
106.60 
507.06 
400.32 
0.00
700.16 
(169.09)
(1.02)
(168.07)
-
61.50
Form AOC-I
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries/associate companies/joint ventures
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
@ formerly known as Endurance Overseas Srl
# 95% of the share capital is held directly by the Company and remaining 5% share capital held by Endurance GmbH, Germany, Wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, have been bought back during the current year by 
Endurance Overseas SpA.
* Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Endurance Overseas SpA
**Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Endurance Two Wheelers SpA
Notes : 
1)	
The figures stated above for foreign subsidiaries are as per local GAAP of the country of respective subsidiary and have been converted in INR as per exchange rate mentioned in the table above.
2)	
The figures for the Indian subsidiary are as per Indian Accounting Standards.
3)	
Turnover includes Other Income and Other Operating Revenue.
272  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Name of Associates/Joint Ventures
1. Latest audited Balance Sheet Date
2. Shares of Associate/Joint Ventures held by the 
Company on the year end
a) 	 Number
b) 	 Amount of Investment in Associates/Joint Venture
c) 	 Extend of Holding %
3. Description of how there is significant influence
4. Reason why the Associate/Joint Venture is not 
consolidated
5. Net worth attributable to Shareholding as per latest 
audited Balance Sheet
6. Profit/Loss for the year
a) 	 Considered in Consolidation
b) 	 Not Considered in Consolidation
Part “B”: Associates and Joint Ventures: NIL
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
Soumendra Basu	 	
	
Anurang Jain	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
Chairman	
	
	
Managing Director
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
R S Raja Gopal Sastry  	
	
Sunil Lalai
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
Group Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary & Executive 
Date: 15th May, 2025	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
Vice President–Legal
273 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
02-61
Corporate Overview
132-273 Financial Statements
62-131
Statutory Reports
Notes
Notes
Notes
REGISTERED OFFICE 
E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj,  
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar 431136, 
Maharashtra, India. 
Tel.: +91-240-2569600
E-mail: investors@endurance.co.in 
www.endurancegroup.com
Independent Assurance Statement 
Independent Assurance Statement to Endurance Technologies Limited on its BRSR for the FY 2024-25
The Board of Directors, 
Endurance Technologies Limited,
E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, 
Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar, 
Maharashtra
Nature of the Assurance
SGS India Private Limited (hereinafter referred to as ‘SGS 
India’) was engaged by Endurance Technologies Limited (the 
‘Company’ or ‘ETL’) to conduct an independent assurance of the 
Company’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting 
(BRSR) (the ‘Report’) pertaining to the reporting period of April 1, 
2024, to March 31, 2025. SGS India has conducted a Reasonable 
level of Assurance for BRSR core parameters. This assurance 
engagement was conducted in accordance with “International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised).
Reporting Framework
The Report has been prepared following the
1)	
BRSR Core–Framework for assurance and ESG disclosures 
for value chain (SEBI vide Circular No.SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD- 
SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122) dated July 12, 2023
2)	
MASTER CIRCULAR (SEBI vide Circular No.SEBI/HO/CFD/
PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120) dated July 11, 2023
3)	
Greenhouse Gas Protocol standards
4)	
Industry 
Standards 
on 
Reporting 
of 
BRSR 
Core 
(SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177) 
dated 
December 20, 2024
Intended Users of this Assurance Statement
This Assurance Statement is provided with the intention of 
informing all Endurance Technologies Limited’s Stakeholders.
Responsibilities
The information in the report and its presentation are the 
responsibility of the management of the Company. SGS India 
has not been involved in the preparation of any of the material 
included in the report.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, 
and statements within the defined scope of assurance, aiming 
to inform the management of the Company, and in alignment 
with the agreed terms of reference. We do not accept or assume 
any responsibility beyond this specific scope. The Statement 
shall not be used for interpreting the overall performance of 
the Company, except for the aspects explicitly mentioned 
within the scope.
Assurance Standard
SGS has conducted an engagement in accordance with the 
International Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 
3000(revised) (Assurance Engagements other than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information). Our evidence-
gathering procedures were designed to obtain a ‘Reasonable’ 
level of assurance, which is a high level of assurance in 
accordance with ISAE 3000(revised) standard but is not absolute 
certainty. It involves obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence 
to support the conclusion that the information presented in the 
report is fairly stated and is free from material misstatements.
Statement of Independence and Competence
The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, 
testing and assurance, operating in more than 140 countries 
and providing services including management systems and 
service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical 
auditing and training; environmental, social and sustainability 
report assurance. SGS affirm our independence from Endurance 
Technologies Limited, being free from bias and conflicts of 
interest with the organization, its subsidiaries and stakeholders.
The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, 
experience and qualifications for this assignment, and 
comprised auditors registered with ISO 26000, ISO 20121, ISO 
50001, SA8000, RBA, QMS, EMS, SMS, GPMS, CFP, WFP, GHG 
Verification and GHG Validation Lead Auditors and experience 
on the SRA Assurance.
Scope of Assurance
The assurance process involved assessing the quality, accuracy, 
and reliability of BRSR Indicators (KPIs) within the report for the 
period April 1, 2024, to March 31, 2025. The reporting scope 
and boundaries include 22 manufacturing Plants, and 4 offices 
spread across different states in India
01 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Independent Assurance Statement (Contd..)
Assurance Methodology
The assurance comprised a combination of desktop review, 
interaction with the key personnel engaged in the process of 
developing the report, on-site visits, and remote verification of 
data. Specifically, SGS India undertook the following activities:
•	
Assessment of the suitability of the applicable criteria in 
terms of its comprehensiveness, reliability, and accuracy.
•	
Interaction with key personnel responsible for collecting, 
consolidating, and calculating the BRSR core KPIs and 
assessing the internal control mechanisms in place to 
ensure data quality.
•	
Application of analytical procedures and verification of 
documents on a sample basis for the compilation and 
reporting of the KPIs.
•	
Assessing the aggregation process of data at the 
Head Office level.
•	
Critical review of the report regarding the plausibility and 
consistency of qualitative and quantitative information 
related to the KPIS.
Limitations
The assurance scope excludes:
•	
Disclosures 
other 
than 
those 
mentioned 
in 
the 
assurance scope.
•	
Data review outside the operational sites as mentioned in 
the reporting boundary.
•	
Validation of any data and information other than those 
presented in “Findings and Conclusion.”
•	
The assurance engagement considers an uncertainty of 
±5% based on the materiality threshold for Assumption/ 
estimation/measurement errors and omissions.
•	
The Company’s statements that describe the expression 
of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim to future 
intention provided by the Company, and assertions related 
to Intellectual Property Rights and other competitive issues.
•	
Strategy and other related linkages expressed in the Report.
•	
Mapping of the Report with reporting frameworks other 
than those mentioned in the Reporting Criteria above.
SGS India verified data on a sample basis; the responsibility for 
the authenticity of the data entirely lies with the Company. The 
assurance scope excluded forward-looking statements, product- 
or service-related information, external information sources 
and expert opinions. SGS India has not been involved in the 
evaluation or assessment of any financial data/performance of 
the company. Our opinion on financial indicators is based on the 
third-party audited financial reports of the Company. SGS India 
does not take any responsibility for the financial data reported in 
the audited financial reports of the Company.
Findings and Conclusions
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence 
we have obtained, we are satisfied that the information 
presented by the Company in its report, on the Core Indicators 
(as per annexure A) is complete, accurate, reliable, has been 
fairly stated in all material respects, and is prepared in line with 
the BRSR requirements.
For and on behalf of SGS India Private Limited
Sd/-
Ashwini K. Mavinkurve
Head – ESG & Sustainability 
Services, SGS India
Pune, India 16th June 2025
Sd/-
Abhijit Joshi
Technical reviewer– ESG & Sustainability 
Services, SGS India Pune, India
Sd/-
Ajinkya Sambre
Lead Verifier – ESG & Sustainability 
Services, SGS India
Pune, India
02  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Annexure A
The list of BRSR Core Indicators that were verified within this assurance engagement is given below:
S. 
No.
BRSR Core Attributes
Reasons for recall 
1
Greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint
 
 
Total Scope 1 emissions
 
 
Total Scope 2 emissions
 
 
GHG Emission Intensity (Scope 1 +2)
2
Water footprint
 
 
Total water Extraction
 
 
Total water consumption
 
 
Water consumption intensity
 
 
Water Discharge by destination and levels of Treatment
3
Energy footprint
 
 
Total energy consumed
 
 
% of energy consumed from renewable sources
 
 
Energy intensity
4
Embracing circularity
 
 
Plastic waste
 
 
E-waste
 
 
Bio-Medical Waste
 
 
Construction and Demolition waste
 
 
Battery waste
 
 
Radioactive Waste
 
 
Other hazardous waste
 
 
Other non-hazardous waste
 
 
Total waste generated
 
 
Waste intensity
 
 
Total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other 
recovery operations
 
 
Total waste disposed by nature of disposal method
5
Employee well-being and safety
 
 
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees as a % of 
total revenue from operations of the Company
 
 
Details of safety related incidents for employees
6
Enabling gender diversity in business
 
 
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid
 
 
Complaints on POSH
7
Enabling inclusive development
 
 
Input material sourced from MSMEs/ small producers as % of total 
purchases directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers and 
directly from within India
 
 
Job creation in smaller towns - Wages paid to persons employed in 
smaller towns as % of total wage cost
8
Fairness in engaging with customers and suppliers
 
 
Instances involving loss/breach of data of customers as a percentage 
of total data breaches or cyber security events
 
 
Number of days of accounts payable
9
Open-ness of business
 
 
Concentration of purchases & sales done with trading houses, 
dealers, and related parties
 
 
Loans and advances & investments with related parties
03 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Sr. 
No.
Description of main activity 
Description of business activity 
% of turnover of the entity
1.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing of auto components
97.13%
Sr. 
No.
Product / Service 
NIC Code
% of total turnover contributed
 1.
Aluminium die-cast products
24320
38.91%
 2.
Suspension products
30913
35.04%
 3.
Braking systems and transmission 
products
30913
19.09%
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity - 
L34102MH1999PLC123296 
2.
Name of the Listed Entity 
Endurance Technologies Limited (ETL)
3.
Year of incorporation 
1999
4.
Registered office address 
E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj,
Chh. Sambhajinagar - 431 136, Maharashtra
5.
Corporate address  
E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj,
Chh. Sambhajinagar - 431 136, Maharashtra
6.
E-mail 
investors@endurance.co.in
7.
Telephone
+91-240-2569600
8.
Website
www.endurancegroup.com
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2024-25
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are 
listed 
BSE Limited (BSE), National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(NSE) 
11.
Paid-up Capital 
INR 1,406,628,480 
12.
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) 
of the person who may be contacted in case of any 
queries on the BRSR report 
•	
Mr. Anurang Jain 
Managing Director 
Contact number: +91 240 2569600 
Email ID: corporate@endurance.co.in, vjr@endurance.co.in
•	
Mr. Rajendra Abhange 
Director and Chief Operating Officer 
Contact number: +91 240 2569600 
Email ID: corporate@endurance.co.in
13.
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this 
report made on a standalone basis (i.e., only for 
the entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e., for the 
entity and all the entities which form a part of its 
consolidated financial statements, taken together).
The disclosure under this report is made on a standalone 
basis.
14.
Name of the assurance provider
SGS India Private Limited
15.
Type of assurance obtained
Reasonable Assurance
II.	
 Products/services 
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
17.	 Products / Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover):
I.	
Details of the listed entity 
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING (BRSR)
04  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars 
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES*
1. 
Permanent (D)
2,411
2,227
92.37%
184
7.63%
2. 
Other than Permanent (E) 
0
0
0%
0
0%
3. 
Total employees (D + E)
2,411
2,227
92.37%
184
7.63%
WORKERS
4. 
Permanent (F)
1,959
1,955
99.8%
4
0.2%
5. 
Other than Permanent (G) 
13,690
11,902
86.94%
1,788
13%
6. 
Total workers (F + G)
15,649
13,857
88.55%
1,792
11.45%
Sr. 
No.
Particulars 
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1. 
Permanent (D)
0
0
0%
0
0%
Location 
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National 
19
5
24
International 
Nil
Locations 
Number 
National (No. of States) 
Pan India
International (No. of Countries) 
32
III.	 Operations 
18.	 Number of locations where plants and / or operations / offices of the entity are situated: 
19.	  Markets served by the entity:
	
a.	
Number of locations
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 
	
	
2.37%. This is the exports as a percentage of revenue from customer contracts.
	
c.	
A brief on type of customers 
	
	
Endurance Technologies Limited serves leading Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) across the two, three and 
four-wheeler segments in both domestic and international markets. A complete solutions provider, the Company offers a 
comprehensive range of products across aluminium die-casting, suspension, transmission, braking systems, and embedded 
electronics for the vehicle segments it operates in. The Company’s Aftermarket business addresses retail demand in India 
and select export markets, offering suspension, transmission, braking systems, and other value-added products through a 
wide network of distributors. 
IV.	 Employees
20.	 Details as of the end of the financial year:  
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
	
	
Note: Outsourced and off-roll personnel have not been considered under Other than Permanent Employees. The 
headcount of 'Other than Permanent' workers has been calculated based on the average for the month of March. Except 
for wages, all data reported for these categories in the BRSR are derived using this average headcount for March.
	
b.	
Differently abled employees and workers: Not Applicable
	
Note: Each of the Company’s plants has offices that are not enumerated separately. 
05 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars 
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
2. 
Other than Permanent (E) 
0
0
0%
0
0%
3. 
Total differently abled employees (D + E) 
0
0
0%
0
0%
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4. 
Permanent (F)
0
0
0%
0
0%
5. 
Other than Permanent (G) 
0
0
0%
0
0%
6. 
Total differently-abled workers (F + G) 
0
0
0%
0
0%
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors 
10
2
20%
Key Management Personnel* 
2
0
0%
21.	 Participation / Inclusion / Representation of women 
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 years)  
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees 
16.36%
20.79%
16.63%
17.20%
24.16%
17.46%
22.10%
25.81%
22.20%
Permanent Workers
2.56%
22.22%
2.60%
2.09%
25.00%
2.14%
3.68%
0.00%
3.67%
	
*During the period under review, Mr. Anurang Jain, Mrs. Varsha Jain, Mr. Rajendra Abhange were Directors of the Company as well as Key Management 
Personnel (KMP’). Hence, they are excluded from the count of KMP.
	
In FY 2024- 25, the Company implemented a Voluntary Separation Scheme (VSS) for permanent workers in one of its plants.
Sr. 
No.
Name of the holding / subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding / subsidiary 
/ associate  / joint 
venture
% of shares 
held by the 
listed entity
Does the entity indicated 
in column A participate 
in Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes  No)
1.
Endurance GmbH, Germany
Direct Subsidiary
100%
No
2.
Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy^
Direct Subsidiary
100%
No
3.
Endurance SpA, Italy
Indirect Subsidiary
100%*
No
4.
Endurance Engineering Srl, Italy
Indirect Subsidiary
100%*
No
5.
Endurance Casting SpA, Italy
Indirect Subsidiary
100%*
No
6.
Veicoli Srl, Italy
Indirect Subsidiary
100%*
No
7.
Endurance Two Wheelers SpA, Italy^^
Indirect Subsidiary
100%*
No
8.
GDS Sarl, Tunisia
Indirect Subsidiary
100%*
No
9.
Ingenia Automation Srl, Italy**
Indirect Subsidiary
100%*
No
10.
Maxwell Energy Systems Private Limited, India
Direct Subsidiary
61.50%
No
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary, and Associate Companies (including joint ventures) 
23.	 (a) 	 Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures - 
	
*Shares held by Endurance Overseas SpA, Italy, directly or indirectly. 
	
^ Name change pursuant to conversion from a “Limited Liability” to a “Public Limited” Company w.e.f. 20th January, 2025. 
	
^^ Effective 1st January, 2025, New Fren Srl and Frenotecnica Srl, wholly owned subsidiaries of Endurance Overseas SpA, merged with Endurance Adler 
SpA, and the name of Endurance Adler SpA changed to Endurance Two Wheelers SpA.
	
**Became a subsidiary w.e.f. 31st May, 2024. 
06  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
	
Note: As of 31st March 2025, and as of the date of this report, the Company has one associate company, TP Green Nature Limited (“TP Green”), in which 
the Company holds 26% of its share capital. However, the Company does not exercise any ‘significant influence’ in the management of its business affairs 
nor has any rights / obligations, except as its shareholder. Please refer to the ‘Subsidiaries’ section of the Corporate Governance Report on Page 125 for 
further details.
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom the 
complaint is 
received 
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place 
(Yes / No) (If yes, then 
provide web-link for 
grievance redressal 
policy) 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year 
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year 
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year 
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year 
Remarks
Communities 
Yes - Yes- Please refer 
to Principle 8, Essential 
Indicator 3.
0
0
-
0
0
-
Shareholders 
and Investors
Yes*
0
0
-
0
0
-
VII.	 Transparency and Disclosure Compliances  
25.	 Complaints / Grievances on any of the Principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct (“NGRBC”): 
VI.	 CSR Details 
24.	 (i) 	
Whether CSR is applicable as per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (Yes / No): Yes
	
(ii) 	
Turnover (in H): 88,461.48 million
	
(iii) 	 Net worth (in H): 43,480.09 million
07 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom the 
complaint is 
received 
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place 
(Yes / No) (If yes, then 
provide web-link for 
grievance redressal 
policy) 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year 
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year 
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year 
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year 
Remarks
Employees and 
Workers^
Yes - Please refer to 
Principle 3 Essential 
Indicator 6.
786
36
Working 
Conditions, 
Health & 
Safety, Welfare, 
Infrastructure, 
POSH, 
Wages and 
other related 
categories. 
908
23
All pending 
complaints 
from 
FY2023-
24 were 
resolved 
satisfactorily 
during the 
current 
reporting 
year. 
Customers#
(OEM and 
After Market 
Distributors) 
Yes- Please refer to Principle 
9 Essential Indicator 01.
770
21
All complaints 
were resolved 
within the 
established 
turnaround 
time. The 
outstanding 
complaints will 
be resolved 
within due 
course.
960
15
All pending 
complaints 
from 
FY2023-
24 were 
resolved 
satisfactorily 
during the 
current 
reporting 
year
Value Chain 
Partners 
(Suppliers and 
Vendors)
Yes+ 
0
0
No issues 
initiated 
through the ITS 
system.
02
0
All resolved
Other (please 
specify)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
Note: The status of complaints received and resolved is as of 31st March 2025.
	
* Shareholders and other investors can raise queries and concerns by sending an email to investors@endurance.co.in. Grievances  / complaints can also 
be raised on the grievance redressal platform of SEBI – SCORES. Contact details of the designated officials of the Company responsible for assisting and 
handling investor grievances are provided on the Company’s website at https://www.endurancegroup.com/investor-relations/.  Additionally, the Company 
has a Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee responsible for enquiry into and redressal of grievances of shareholders / security holders and investors.  
	
+ The Company has an online "Issue Tracking System (ITS)" within the Endurance Vendor Portal (Vendor Access System) for suppliers to register and 
track the resolution of their issues / queries. Concerns are directed to plant-specific SPOCs responsible for resolution within a specified timeframe. The 
system also generates email notifications for Endurance SPOCs and supplier-side MD / CEOs. Short payments, quality, and business-related issues are not 
considered as grievances because they are usually closed within a defined timeline.
	
^ Includes both employee and worker complaints and suggestions (permanent and other than permanent), including POSH complaints.         
	
#The number of complaints includes concerns raised by distributors, including those on behalf of the end consumer. Any product replacements due to 
manufacturing defects are covered under the Company’s replacement policy and are not included in this count.
08  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues:
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R / O) 
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity 
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate 
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications) 
1
Environmental 
Impact 
(Climate, 
Energy, Waste)
Risk
With the rising risk of climate 
change, companies face 
increasing regulations and the 
associated cost of compliance.
Additionally, there is an 
increasing expectation of 
Greenhouse Gas Emission 
reduction targets from 
regulators, customers and 
investors.  
Poor waste management may 
lead to pollution, regulatory 
violations, and health hazards. 
The Company ensures full compliance 
with Pollution Control Board guidelines 
and Environmental Protection regulations, 
including Extended Producer Responsibility 
(EPR). Committed to science-based emissions 
reduction targets (Science Based Targets 
initiative -SBTi), the Company is actively 
advancing its Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions 
inventories along with the development of a 
Net-Zero Roadmap. The intention is to submit 
its near-term and long-term SBTi targets for 
validation in the financial year 2025-26. The 
Company’s corporate sustainability team has 
developed a structured roadmap with defined 
goals and milestones to guide its transition 
toward sustainable operations.
A key component of this strategy is the 
expansion of its renewable energy mix and 
the adoption of cost-efficient, innovative 
solutions to accelerate climate action. Energy 
conservation teams across all locations 
support the implementation of continuous 
improvements and the horizontal deployment 
of successful practices. Emphasis is placed on 
renewable energy efficiency, climate action, and 
circularity. Endurance continues to transition to 
cleaner fuels, adopt advanced energy-efficient 
technologies, and invest in systems such as 
heat recovery, high-efficiency compressors and 
fuel optimisation to reduce its overall energy 
footprint.
A strong culture of training and innovation, 
backed by senior leadership commitment, a 
robust monitoring process, and a structured 
rewards and recognition mechanism, supports 
the Company’s sustainability efforts. Employee 
engagement is further driven through 
sustainability workshops and innovation 
programmes, reinforcing the Company’s long-
term environmental goals.
The Company follows the principles of ‘Reduce, 
Reuse, and Recycle’ (3R) to drive resource 
efficiency and advance its circular economy 
initiatives. To minimise chemical waste, the 
Company has implemented systems for 
returnable packaging and coolant recycling. 
Additionally, a substantial portion of aluminium 
scrap generated during operations is recycled, 
and the Company validated its ‘Zero Waste to 
Landfill’ (ZWTL) achievement at five sites during 
the year.
For more details, refer to Principle 6, Essential 
Indicators 8 & 10 and Leadership Indicators 4. 
Additional details are available in the Annual 
Report, on Page no. 50 in the section titled 
‘Driving a greener tomorrow’.
Positive and Negative
Opportunity
Effectively managing climate 
change, energy use, and waste 
offers significant opportunities 
for companies. 
Improving resource efficiency, 
especially in energy and 
waste, leads to cost savings 
and boosts competitiveness. 
Reducing greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions also helps 
minimise the Company’s 
environmental impact, and 
a proactive approach to 
environmental management 
strengthens stakeholder trust 
while enhancing the Company’s 
reputation in the market.
09 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R / O) 
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity 
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate 
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications) 
2
Environmental 
Impact (Air, 
Water)
 Risk 
Air and water pollution caused 
by manufacturing operations 
pose risks to public health and 
the ecosystems. 
Ineffective management of 
these aspects also poses a 
regulatory compliance risk. 
Without proper mitigation, 
these environmental impacts 
may lead to operational 
disruptions, financial penalties, 
and may jeopardise a 
Company’s license to operate. 
There is increased demand for 
water for multiple uses, and 
there is increased water stress 
due to industrial and domestic 
demand for water. Addressing 
potential cost increases and 
ensuring continued water 
availability is essential for 
the Company’s continued 
operations.  The Company’s 
plant in Narsapura, as per 
Central Ground Water Authority 
(CGWA) norms, is in a water-
stressed zone. 
The Company not only adheres to compliance 
with the applicable laws on water and air but 
also focuses on improving water management 
and building resilience. Through robust systems 
and comprehensive protocols, the Company 
monitors and reduces water consumption across 
its operations. The Company actively implements 
recycling and reuse practices wherever possible, 
including in cooling towers, household usage, 
and drip irrigation systems, to maximise water 
efficiency and minimise waste. 
Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) and Effluent 
Treatment Plants (ETP) are set up to treat 
wastewater as per the required limits. Water 
conservation measures include closed-loop water 
curtain systems in paint shops, and cascading 
rinse systems are used in surface treatments 
to save water. Additionally, the Company has 
invested in expanding rainwater harvesting, 
besides running focused CSR initiatives to 
enhance water resilience in local communities.
Air emissions are monitored diligently to 
ensure compliance as well as guide corrective 
and improvement initiatives. The Company is 
committed to minimising air emissions through 
various initiatives such as power efficiency 
upgrades and fuel optimisation using magnetic 
resonators for cleaner fuel combustion. These 
efforts are designed to reduce particulate and 
gaseous emissions from operations. Additionally, 
efforts to improve fuel efficiency and motor 
management help lower its overall air pollution 
footprint. In the financial year, two plants turned 
‘water-positive’.
Through focused water conservation efforts, 
there was a reduction in water intensity at the 
Narsapaura plant.
For more details, refer to the section titled 
‘Driving a greener tomorrow’.in the Annual 
Report on Page 50, Principle 6, Essential 
Indicators 5 (Water) and 8 (Air Pollution) and 
Leadership Indicator 4
Negative
3
Customer 
Focus & 
Innovation 
Opportunity
Building a responsive and 
collaborative relationship with 
customers creates opportunities 
to quickly adapt to changing 
market trends and evolving 
needs. Embracing innovation 
enhances agility and drives 
product differentiation, 
improved offerings, and 
the development of unique 
solutions, leading to revenue 
diversification, increased 
competitiveness, and long-term 
business sustainability.
The Company’s R&D and innovation strategy 
is centred around understanding the evolving 
customer needs. Guided by these insights, 
the Company is developing new products and 
technologies that deliver environmental and 
social benefits, such as light-weighting, enhanced 
energy recovery, and improved vehicle safety. 
With a strong legacy of creating proprietary, IP-
driven innovations, the Company has consistently 
contributed to higher customer satisfaction, 
revenue growth and profitability. This innovative 
edge is safeguarded through strategic intellectual 
property protections, including patents, 
trademarks, and related measures.
For more details, refer to the Annual Report 
section on ‘Our Research and Development’, 
Page 32 and Page 93 in the ‘Technology 
Absorption’ section of the, Annexure I to the 
Board’s Report.
Note: The Company, on a standalone basis 
and through its subsidiaries, continues to invest 
in R&D to play a meaningful role in the EV 
ecosystem. 
Positive
10  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R / O) 
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity 
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate 
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications) 
4
Sustainable 
Supply Chain 
Opportunity
By integrating sustainable 
practices across its value chain, 
the Company reduces its 
environmental footprint and 
reinforces its commitment to 
environmental stewardship. This 
aligning with the Company’s 
ESG framework and the 
expectations of its investors 
and customers. It enhances 
stakeholder trust and helps 
positions the Company as a 
responsible market leader.
Addressing ESG-related risks 
within the value chain presents 
a strategic opportunity for 
the Company, enhancing its 
business model resilience, 
reducing exposure to 
environmental and social risks, 
and delivering long-term value 
to investors and stakeholders.
The Company fosters consistent and meaningful 
engagement with its supplier network, recognising 
collaboration as key to advancing its sustainability 
agenda. At the core of this engagement is the 
Endurance Vendor Association (EVA), a platform 
for regular dialogue, knowledge sharing, and 
alignment on ESG best practices. EVA enables 
suppliers to actively support the Company’s 
environmental and social commitments while 
offering a channel for feedback to inform 
targeted improvements. The growing number of 
EVA participants reflects the expanding shared 
commitment to responsible business practices.
The Company undertakes targeted awareness 
and capacity-building initiatives to strengthen 
the sustainability performance of its supply chain. 
These include ESG onboarding sessions, climate-
focused workshops, and capability development 
programmes that promote certifications such 
as ISO 14001, ISO 45001, and GreenCo. The 
Company has identified key ESG parameters 
from the BRSR Core framework and trained its 
top suppliers to align with these requirements, 
ensuring a consolidated and standardised 
approach to sustainability across the supply chain. 
Supplier performance is regularly monitored 
through ESG audits, MDEHS (Manufacturing, 
Design, Environment, Health and Safety) reviews, 
and third-party assessments. Sustainability criteria 
are integrated into procurement evaluations to 
support Scope 3 GHG alignment, enable more 
responsible sourcing decisions, and enhance 
overall value chain resilience.
For more details, refer to Principle 1, Leadership 
Indicator 1 and Principle 2, Leadership Indicator 
2. Additional information is available in the 
Annual Report in the section ‘Strategic sourcing 
and supply chain resilience’ on Page 42. 
Positive
5
Health & 
Safety
Risk
Health and safety are critical 
to business operations, as 
any deficiencies can lead to 
severe consequences, including 
workplace injuries, legal 
liabilities, operational delays, 
and reputational harm. Poor 
safety practices may result in 
reduced employee morale, 
increased absenteeism, and 
lower productivity, directly 
affecting business performance. 
Non-compliance with health 
and safety regulations can also 
attract regulatory penalties. 
Therefore, ensuring a safe and 
healthy work environment is not 
just a legal requirement but a 
strategic imperative supporting 
operational continuity and 
stakeholder confidence.
The Company is committed to maintaining 
a safe and healthy work environment for all 
employees, contract workers, and on-site 
personnel. Health and safety are treated as non-
negotiable priorities, with a strict zero-tolerance 
policy toward unsafe behaviours and conditions. 
Safety leadership is driven from the top, with 
senior management conducting monthly cross-
functional reviews to monitor progress against 
established safety objectives.
A comprehensive Occupational Health and 
Safety Management System (OHSMS) has been 
implemented to proactively identify, assess, and 
mitigate workplace risks. Anchored in a "Safety 
First, Zero Harm" culture, the Company views 
employee well-being as a moral obligation and 
a strategic pillar aligned with its sustainability 
and business performance goals.
Employee engagement is fostered through 
regular safety training, milestone recognitions, 
and "Know Your Policy" sessions. Additionally, 
health-focused initiatives such as anaemia 
awareness programmes are conducted to 
address specific wellness needs through 
education and preventive care.
For more details, refer to Principle 3, Essential 
Indicators 10 and 12. 
Negative
11 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R / O) 
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity 
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate 
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications) 
6
Labour 
Management
Risk
Labour relations are critical 
to the Company’s operating 
model. Maintaining stable and 
harmonious labour relations 
ensures business continuity 
and fosters strong stakeholder 
relationships. Poor labour 
management can pose risks like 
workflow disruptions, reduced 
productivity, compliance 
challenges, and the potential for 
regulatory or legal issues arising 
from labour disputes. Therefore, 
the Company places high value 
on effective labour relations 
to support smooth, efficient 
operations across the business.
The Company’s workforce, comprising both 
permanent and contractual employees, is 
supported by a strong industrial relations team 
at each plant, aligning with the Company’s 
Human Capital Management strategy. The 
Company operates within a robust governance 
framework, with clear policies addressing key 
areas such as wages, health and safety, human 
rights, grievance redressal, and collective 
bargaining. Medical and insurance benefits 
are provided to safeguard employees from 
occupational and non-occupational risks. In 
addition, the Company ensures awareness of 
eligibility and supports its contractual workforce 
in availing their entitlements under ESIC, LWF, as 
well as other government schemes.
Going beyond compliance, the Company 
fosters a culture of engagement and continuous 
improvement. Initiatives such as the On-the-
Spot Award program recognise exceptional 
contributions in real time, while the Mitra 
Buddy Program ensures smooth onboarding 
and integration of new employees. Regular 
medical camps and wellness talks support 
holistic well-being, and team-building activities 
like get-togethers and hobby-based clubs 
help strengthen interpersonal connections. 
These efforts are complemented by incentive 
structures linked to performance, attendance, 
and productivity, along with a comprehensive 
rewards and recognition system that reinforces 
alignment with organisational goals and drives 
long-term success.
Labour management is anchored in the 
principles of human capital development; for 
more information, please refer to Page 37 of the 
Annual Report in the section ‘Empowering our 
talent pool’.
Negative
12  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R / O) 
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity 
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate 
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications) 
7
CSR
Opportunity
By creating meaningful 
impact in communities and 
strengthening relationships with 
stakeholders, the Company’s 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) initiatives continue to 
build lasting goodwill. These 
positive outcomes reflect 
the Company’s commitment 
to responsible and inclusive 
growth. Through a focused 
approach to CSR, the Company 
embraces its role as a corporate 
citizen. It remains dedicated to 
giving back to society in ways 
that align with its long-term 
sustainability vision.
CSR is embraced by the Company as a strategic 
opportunity to generate meaningful impact 
beyond its core operations. The Company 
embeds social responsibility into its overall 
strategic framework by aligning CSR initiatives 
with its business objectives and core values. 
Through sustained engagement with local 
communities and the execution of programmes 
designed to meet their specific needs, the 
Company proactively helps address key social 
and environmental challenges of vulnerable 
and marginalised communities. One of the new 
initiatives demonstrating this commitment is the 
launch of the Mobile Medical Clinic, developed 
in partnership with Kamal Nayan Bajaj Hospital, 
in Chh. Sambhajinagar. This initiative, which 
reached and treated 4,850 patients in FY 
2024–25, has substantially improved healthcare 
accessibility for underserved communities 
across 47 villages in Chh. Sambhajinagar district. 
Providing regular medical attention makes a 
significant difference in enhancing the well-
being of these communities.
For more details, refer to the ‘Committed to 
communities’ section of the Annual Report 
on Page 44 and Annexure II to the Board’s 
Report, Annual Report on Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) Activities on Page 97.
Positive
8
Employee 
Experience
Risk
High attrition and low employee 
engagement negatively affect 
productivity, disrupt operational 
efficiency, and increase 
recruitment and training costs. 
Lack of focus on employee 
development may lead to loss 
of institutional knowledge, 
ultimately stalling innovation 
and reducing the Company’s 
agility.
The Company’s 4C HR framework—Culture, 
Competence, Career, and Connect is driven 
by a committed HR team and well-defined 
policies and resources to enhance employee 
development, well-being, engagement, and 
satisfaction and lays the foundation for a happy, 
thriving and inclusive workplace. To promote 
employee wellness and mental resilience, the 
Company regularly hosts impactful programs, 
including Wellness Webinars (covering stress 
management and brain fog), Self-Care and Self-
Awareness sessions, and the Fitness Challenge 
and Wellness Month. Strategic initiatives such as 
the Endurance Leadership Academy (ELA) and 
ETL Talent Advancement Programme (E-TAP) 
are helping cultivate leadership and technical 
capabilities across all levels. Additionally, 
platforms like Shark Tank drive innovation by 
enabling employees to pitch transformative ideas, 
while tools such as the Net Promoter Score (NPS) 
survey and the WOW – Rewards and Recognition 
Portal support a culture of continuous feedback 
and appreciation. Engagement is further enriched 
through Appreciation Week and Hi-Five HR 
Connects, fostering transparency and two-way 
communication. The Company also prioritises 
employee support through structured grievance 
redressal mechanisms, managed by a dedicated 
Grievance Committee. Through this holistic and 
dynamic approach, the Company continues 
to build a skilled, motivated, and future-ready 
workforce that underpins its long-term success.
Refer to Principle 3, Essential Indicator 6 for 
details. Additionally, refer to Page 37 of the 
Annual Report in the section ‘Empowering our 
talent pool’.
Positive and Negative
Opportunity
The Company's position as an 
employer of choice is influenced 
by its commitment to enhancing 
the work environment, offering 
competitive compensation, and 
providing growth opportunities. 
These efforts drive higher 
employee engagement and 
retention while enriching the 
overall employee experience. 
A progressive company culture 
supports productivity, preserves 
quality and institutional 
knowledge, and strengthens the 
Company’s competitive edge.
13 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R / O) 
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity 
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate 
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications) 
9
Diversity
Opportunity 
Embracing diversity fuels 
innovation and sparks 
creativity by combining various 
perspectives and experiences. 
A diverse workforce is more 
adept at understanding and 
meeting the needs of a broad 
customer base, which leads to 
better products and services. 
Inclusive workplaces attract top-
tier talent and boost reputation 
and employee morale. When 
leadership reflects a variety of 
backgrounds, decision-making 
and problem-solving become 
more dynamic and effective. 
Teams made up of individuals 
with different viewpoints tend to 
be more productive, delivering 
stronger results through 
their unique insights and 
collaborative approaches.
The Company remains committed to building 
a diverse and inclusive workplace and focuses 
on gender, age and regional diversity. The 
actions are driven through the Equal Employer 
Policy and the Endurance Diversity, Equity, and 
Inclusion Committee (EDEIC). The Company has 
made steady progress in female representation 
at leadership positions, with 100+ female 
employees at O1 and above levels. Programmes 
like Winning with Women (WWW) continue to 
empower female employees through networking 
and development opportunities. A web-based 
training module on DEI was launched, along 
with targeted workshops for leaders to address 
unconscious bias and foster inclusive teams. 
The SHE Endurance Drive and the Diversity 
Referral Program have been instrumental in 
promoting inclusive hiring, particularly for Plant 
HR roles, and in enhancing female participation. 
Additionally, tailor-made training under the 
Endurance Leadership Academy is helping 
develop diverse talent pipelines for the future.
The most significant impact in improving 
gender diversity has been achieved with the 
contractual workforce. A combination of focused 
recruitment drives and the provision of benefits, 
including security personnel escorting women 
workers, has supported these activities. In 
addition, the Company organises focused health 
and wellness sessions for the female workforce 
while also educating them on POSH and related 
protection and provisions. The Company has 
identified and collaborated with a number of 
institutions and works with its contract labour 
providers to ensure that it is able to access a 
greater proportion of female workers. 
For more details, please refer to the Page 37 of 
the Annual Report in the section ‘Empowering 
our talent pool’.
Positive
10
Human Rights 
Risk
Legal complications, financial 
penalties, and employee 
dissatisfaction can be triggered 
when human rights standards 
are violated within the 
Company’s operations or supply 
chains. These consequences can 
disrupt productivity, damage 
the Company’s reputation, and 
erode consumer trust, ultimately 
leading to a decline in sales. 
Additionally, costly delays and 
operational interruptions often 
result from labour disputes or 
child labour allegations, which 
can increase production costs 
and compromise supply chain 
efficiency.
The Company is committed to upholding 
and protecting human rights throughout its 
operations and supply chain. This commitment 
is actively reinforced through structured 
audit protocols, regular assessments, and 
advanced digital monitoring systems to ensure 
continuous compliance with human rights 
standards. Human rights considerations are 
embedded in all contractual agreements 
with contractors, vendors, and suppliers, 
promoting accountability across the entire 
value chain. The Company focuses on ensuring 
fair wages, supporting freedom of association, 
and complying with legal and regulatory 
requirements. The Company maintains strict 
policies against discrimination, child and forced 
labour, and enforces comprehensive prevention 
measures related to Sexual Harassment (POSH) 
in the workplace. For more details, please refer 
to Principle 5 of this BRSR.
Negative
14  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R / O) 
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity 
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate 
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications) 
11
Risk 
Management 
Risk
Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) plays a critical role in 
corporate governance by 
strengthening the Company’s 
resilience against financial and 
non-financial risks, including 
external challenges such as 
climate change and natural 
disasters. Inadequate risk 
identification and mitigation 
can expose the Company 
to operational disruptions, 
threats to business continuity, 
environmental damage, and 
reputational harm, potentially 
resulting in legal complications, 
regulatory breaches, and a 
decline in market share. 
Investors recognise 
Environmental, Social, and 
Governance (ESG) risks as key 
indicators of a company's ability 
to meet the expectations of a 
diverse stakeholder base.
Risk Management is overseen by the Board 
constituted Risk Management Committee, 
ensuring a robust framework considering a 
broad spectrum of risks, including ESG risks. 
The Company maintains a comprehensive 
Risk Management Policy with established 
mechanisms for identifying, assessing, and 
mitigating various risks. Reflecting its long-term 
vision, the Company actively strengthens its 
approach by integrating stakeholder feedback 
into its risk management and strategic planning 
processes. There is an appropriate delegation of 
risk management and resource allocation across 
departments and locations with robust disaster 
recovery and business continuity plans. For more 
details on the latter, please refer to Principle 6, 
Leadership Indicator 5. 
The Company stays attuned to changing 
expectations and emerging opportunities 
through a strong stakeholder engagement and 
management system. This proactive approach 
towards corporate governance helps ensure 
compliance with relevant regulations and goes 
beyond to create long-term value.
For more details on the composition and 
Terms of Reference of the Risk Management 
Committee, please refer to the Corporate 
Governance Report section of the Annual Report 
on Page 118.
Positive
12
Information 
Security and 
Data Privacy
Risk
Neglecting data protection and 
intellectual property safeguards 
can lead to significant financial, 
reputational, and legal 
consequences, disrupting 
business operations and 
impacting stakeholders. This 
risk is further heightened by 
vulnerabilities in remote work 
setups and USB data leaks. 
Rising cyber threats threaten 
data privacy, compromising 
the confidentiality of sensitive 
information.
Cybersecurity threats are effectively dealt with, 
and data privacy obligations are met through 
the Company’s robust ISMS system. ISO 27001 
certification is continually maintained by 
the Company, supported by its vendors and 
partners to address any emerging threats. This is 
reinforced by necessary training and awareness 
for all personnel, alongside strong disaster 
management and business continuity measures.
For more details, refer to Principle 9, Essential 
Indicator 5.
Negative
15 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1.	 a. 	 Whether your entity’s policy/ policies 
cover each principle and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes / No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Note 
1
Yes
Yes
b. 	Has the policy been approved by the 
Board? (Yes / No) **
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Note 
1
Yes
No
c. 	 Web Link of the Policies, if available
Note 
2
Note 
2
Note 
2
Note 
2
Note 
2
Note 
2
Note 
2
Note 
2
Note 2
2.	 Whether the entity has translated the 
policy into procedures. (Yes / No) $
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Note 
1
Yes
Yes
3.	 Do the enlisted policies extend to your 
value chain partners? (Yes / No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
N.A
No
Yes
4.	 Name of the national and international 
codes / certifications / labels / standards 
(e.g., 
Forest 
Stewardship 
Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Truste) 
standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, 
BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped 
to each principle.
The Company has adopted the relevant national and international standards and 
certifications. 
 
 
IATF 16949 certification across 14 plants.
 
 
ISO9001:20015 certification across 5 plants. 
 
 
ISO 14001:2015 and BS ISO 45001:2018 certification across 9 plants.
 
 
ZWTL Platinum Certification from TUV India across 6 plants. 
 
 
GreenCo Gold Certification at one of its plants. 
 
 
ISO 27001:2013
5.	 Specific commitments, goals, and targets 
set by the entity with defined timelines, if 
any.
The Company has taken long-term and short-term ESG targets. They are set on a 
baseline year FY 2019-2020.  
Long Term Targets: 2030
•	
Achieve 50% carbon neutrality by 2030.
•	
50% of the total energy from renewable sources by 2030.
•	
Aspire for Zero Waste to Landfill (ZWTL) for all manufacturing sites by 2030. 
•	
Aim for 15% female representation in our permanent employees and 10% in 
permanent workers.
Short Term Targets: 2026-27 
•	
Achieve 2.5% Y-o-Y carbon neutrality.
•	
Y-o-Y 5% increase in renewable electrical energy. 
•	
Zero Waste to Landfill (ZWTL) for 12 manufacturing sites. 
•	
3% Y-o-Y reduction in water intensity per million rupees.  
•	
Y-o-Y 2% increase in female representation in permanent employees and 1% 
increase in permanent workers.
•	
Plant 4,00,000 trees in financial year 2026. 
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES 
16  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Note 1: The Company is a member of various industry associations and trade bodies (Principle 7, Essential Indicator 1). However, 
Endurance does not take public policy positions (Principle 7, Leadership Indicator 1). Hence, the Company currently does not need a 
policy on Responsible Public Policy Advocacy. 
** The policies have been approved either by the Board of Directors or, in cases where Board approval is not mandated, by the 
Managing Director in accordance with his delegated authority and implementation responsibilities.
$ The Company has defined Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and guidelines which are internally available and accessible to all 
employees of the Company.
Note 2: The Company has identified the key principle-wise policies from a compliance and materiality perspective and these are 
tabulated below:
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
6.	 Performance of the entity against the 
specific commitments, goals, and targets 
along with reasons in case the same are 
not met.
The Company’s performance in 2024-25 against 2030 goals on a baseline year FY 
2019-2020 is presented below:
•	
Achieved 45% Carbon Neutrality.
•	
Submitted formal commitment to SBTi for setting Net Zero targets in 
September 2024. 
•	
37.3% reduction in the Scope 1 and 2 emission Intensity per rupee.
•	
25% of total electrical energy from renewable sources.
•	
Achieved ZWTL (Zero Waste to Landfill) platinum-level at 6 plants.
•	
1,287 MT of waste redirected from landfill, resulting increase in recycling rate 
from 91% in FY 23-24 to 96% in FY 24-25.
•	
~ 2X Female permanent employee headcount (8% gender diversity).
•	
~30% increase in female “other than permanent” workers (13% gender 
diversity).
•	
17.63% reduction in Water Intensity per million rupees.
•	
Planted 2,20,000 trees under afforestation and ecological restoration.
•	
Additionally, the Company was awarded GreenCo Gold for one its plants. 
P1
•	
Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management Personnel (SMP) https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/
uploads/2022/11/code-of-conduct-for-directors-and-smp-april-2024-1.pdf.
•	
Vigil Mechanism-Cum-Whistle Blower Policy https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/vigil-
mechanism-cum-whistle-blower-policy.pdf
•	
Endurance Code of Conduct Policy: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/endurance-code-
of-conduct-ECOC.pdf
•	
Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/anti-
corruption-and-anti-bribery-policy.pdf
P2
•	
Quality Policy+
•	
Sustainable Sourcing Policy+
•	
Supplier Code of Conduct+
P3
•	
Equal Opportunity Employer Policy: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/equal-opportunity-
employer-policy.pdf
•	
Endurance Code of Conduct Policy: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/endurance-code-
of-conduct-ECOC.pdf
•	
Environment, Health and Safety Policy: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Environment-
Health-and-Safety-Policy.pdf
17 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7.	 Statement by the director responsible for the 
business responsibility report, highlighting ESG-
related challenges, targets, and achievements:
The reporting year has been a testament to our unwavering commitment 
to ESG principles, as we made significant strides toward a responsible 
and future-ready organisation. We have made steady progress against 
our ESG goals thanks to concentrated focus and appropriate resources 
allocation.
The Company took a significant step by committing to SBTi in September 
2024, aligning our decarbonisation efforts with global standards. Our 
operations achieved 45% carbon neutrality, driven by a 25% renewable 
energy mix and a 37.3% reduction in emission intensity (Scope 1 and 2) 
per rupee of turnover since FY 2019–20.
One of our plants earned the GreenCo Gold certification, underscoring 
our leadership in sustainable manufacturing. Additionally, six plants 
secured Platinum-level Zero Waste to Landfill certification from TUV India. 
Through innovative waste management, the Company diverted 1,287 
MT of waste from landfills, boosting our recycling rate from 91% to 96%. 
Furthermore, our water conservation initiatives reduced water intensity 
by 17.63% per rupee, and our afforestation efforts saw over 220,000 trees 
planted, reinforcing our ecological restoration goals.
Looking ahead, the Board and senior leadership of the Company 
is committed to deepening ESG integration across our value chain. 
Our priorities include scaling renewable energy adoption, enhancing 
digital monitoring for greater transparency, and strengthening supplier 
capabilities. We are poised to elevate our organisation by fostering 
a culture of continuous learning, championing gender diversity, and 
prioritising workforce well-being. These efforts will amplify and accelerate 
our positive social impacts, underpinned by robust governance 
frameworks that ensure resilient and responsible operations.
These achievements reflect the dedication of our people, partners, and 
leadership to building a future-ready organisation. I extend my sincere 
gratitude to all stakeholders for their unwavering support as we continue 
this transformative journey.
+ These are internal policies that are shared with relevant external stakeholders as needed. The Quality as well as Health and Safety 
policies are prominently displayed at all of the Company’s facilities.
P4
•	
Stakeholders Relationship Policy: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Stakeholder-
Engagement-Policy.pdf
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Corporate-
Social-Responsibility-Policy.pdf
•	
Dividend Distribution Policy: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Dividend-Distribution-
Policy.pdf
P5
•	
Human Rights Policy: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/human-rights-policy.pdf
•	
Endurance Code of Conduct Policy: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/endurance-code-
of-conduct-ECOC.pdf
•	
Equal Opportunity Employer Policy: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/equal-opportunity-
employer-policy.pdf
P6
•	
Sustainability and Climate Risk Policy+
P8
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Corporate-
Social-Responsibility-Policy.pdf
P9
•	
Quality Policy+
•	
Information Security Management Policy+
18  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
8.	 Details of the highest authority responsible for 
implementation and oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy (ies).
Mr. Anurang Jain 
Managing Director, 
DIN: 00291662 
Contact number: +91 240 2569600 
Email ID: corporate@endurance.co.in / vjr@endurance.co.in
Mr. Rajendra Abhange 
Director and Chief Operating Officer, 
DIN: 10632906 
Contact number: +91 240 2569600 
Email ID: corporate@endurance.co.in
9.	 Does the entity have a specified Committee of 
the Board / Director responsible for decision-
making on sustainability-related issues? (Yes / 
No). If yes, provide details.
The Risk Management Committee of the Board is responsible for 
decision-making on sustainability-related issues. The Company conducts 
Board familiarisation programmes on progress on various aspects of the 
Company’s ESG strategy. ESG risks and opportunities are included in the 
periodic review by the Risk Management Committee. The Management 
has constituted an ESG Committee to review the performance of the 
Company on its material priorities, which is supported by a task force. The 
task force is responsible for data management and the implementation 
of improvement initiatives. In addition, the CSR Committee oversees the 
Company’s community development activities.
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for review
Indicate whether the review was undertaken 
by the Director / Committee of the Board / 
Any other Committee
Frequency
(Annually / Half yearly / Quarterly / Any other 
– please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against the above 
policies and follow-up action
Department heads and the leadership team, 
including the Executive Directors (mentioned 
in Question 8), review the performance and 
efficacy of the Company's policies.  Policy 
assessments 
incorporate 
inputs 
through 
stakeholder engagement mechanisms. 
Annually or on a need basis
Compliance 
with 
statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and, rectification of 
any non-compliances
The Company’s policies are periodically 
reviewed to ensure compliance with evolving 
statutory requirements. Policies and processes 
are created, expanded, or updated based
Annually or on a need basis
on a thorough review of stakeholder inputs, 
potential non-compliances, evolving business 
and statutory requirements.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
11.	Has the entity carried out an independent 
assessment / evaluation of the working of its policies 
by an external agency? (Yes / No). If yes, provide the 
name of the agency. *
No
Yes
Yes
No
No
Yes
No
No
Yes
19 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to 
its business (Yes / No)
Yes, Principle 7 is currently not material 
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to 
formulate and implement the policies on specified 
principles (Yes / No)
Not Applicable
The entity does not have the financial or / human and 
technical resources available for the task (Yes / No)
Not Applicable
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes / No)
Not Applicable
Any other reason (please specify)
Refer to Note 1 above
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
*Independent assessments and evaluations of the Company’s policies and operational practices are periodically conducted by 
reputed certifying bodies. 
 
 
14 of the Company’s plants are certified under  IATF 16949 by TUV NORD (Principle 2). 
 
 
5 of the Company’s plants are certified under ISO 9001:2015 by TUV NORD, and all plant locations comply with the requirements 
of this quality management standard (Principles 2 and 9). 
 
 
9 of the Company’s plants are certified under ISO 14001:2015 (environmental management – Principle 6) and BS ISO 45001:2018 
(occupational health and safety – Principle 3) by TUV NORD. 
 
 
Additionally, the Company has achieved enterprise-level ISO 27001 certification by British Standards Institution (BSI), (Principle 9). 
 
 
ZWTL certification from TUV India and GreenCo Gold Award for Principle 2 and Principle 6. 
 
 
Any additional external assessments will be considered as the Company continues to enhance its sustainability and 
compliance frameworks.
20  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE 
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent, and Accountable.
PRINCIPLE 1
Essential Indicators
Segment
Total number of training 
and awareness programs 
held
Topics / principles covered under the training and its 
impact
% of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Board of 
Directors
15
The familiarisation programmmes and other 
Company updates include EHS (Environment, 
Health and Safety), Legal and Secretarial, 
greenfield projects, workforce management, R&D 
(Research and Development), CSR (Corporate 
Social Responsibility), ESG (Environment, Social, 
Governance), sustainability, and other aspects of 
the Business of the Company. These are aligned 
with the responsibilities of the Board, SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015, and all the BRSR Principles, 
excluding Principle 7. The details are available at: 
https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/
uploads/2025/04/Details-of-Familiarisation-
Programme-2024-25.pdf
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
Employees other 
than BoDs and 
KMPs
315
All the principles of BRSR, except Principle 7 are 
covered under the training programmes. These 
include behavioural, functional, leadership and 
personal well-being among others.
92%
Workers
597
Principles 3 and 5 with a focus on Skill Upgradation, 
Health and Safety and POSH
100%
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year:
	
Note: Only formal sessions have been reported for workers. Coverage including induction and on-the-job trainings is 100%. 
2.	
Details of fines / penalties / punishment / award / compounding fees / settlement amount paid in proceedings 
(by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators / law enforcement agencies / judicial institutions, in the 
financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures based on materiality as specified in 
Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the 
entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of regulatory 
/ enforcement 
agencies / judicial 
institutions
Amount (In INR)
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes / No)
Penalty / Fine
Nil
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Settlement
Nil
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Compounding Fee
Nil
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
21 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Non-Monetary
NGRBC Principles
Name of regulatory / 
enforcement agencies / judicial 
institutions
Brief of the case
Has an Appeal been 
preferred (Yes / No)
Imprisonment
Nil
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Punishment
Nil
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
	
Note: In the table above, disclosure is provided based on materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015. Other disclosures made by the Company, pursuant to the notification No. SEBI / 
LAD-NRO / GN / 2023 / 131 dated 14th June 2023 issued by the Securities Exchange Board of India, relating to fines and penalties, 
is available on the website of the Company at https://www.endurancegroup.com/investor-relation/announcements-and-notices/.
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal / Revision are preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory / enforcement agencies / Judicial institutions
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web link to the policy. 
	
Yes, the Company has an Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy to uphold the highest standards of integrity, transparency, and 
ethical conduct. The policy reflects the Company’s zero-tolerance stance against all forms of corruption and bribery, including 
but not limited to offering, promising, giving, or receiving improper payments or benefits to gain an unfair business advantage. 
It applies to all directors, employees, trainees, and third parties acting on behalf of the Company, such as agents, contractors, 
and consultants. The policy outlines explicit prohibitions, reporting mechanisms, and compliance responsibilities to ensure 
adherence across all levels of operation. Any suspected violation is to be reported in accordance with the Vigil Mechanism-cum-
Whistle Blower Policy. The Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy is publicly accessible on the Company’s official website at: 
https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/anti-corruption-and-anti-bribery-policy.pdf.
	
Additionally, the Company’s zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption is also addressed by the Code of Conduct for 
Employees that is included under the Endurance Code of Conduct (ECOC), which is available on the Company’s website at 
https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/ECOC.pdf.
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement 
agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the Directors
0
Not 
Applicable
Nil
Not 
Applicable
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
0
Not 
Applicable
Nil
Not 
Applicable
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directors
0
0
KMPs
0
0
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
22  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables
38.80
37.26
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Concentration of 
Purchases
a.	 Purchases from trading houses as % of total 
purchases
2.39%
1.82%#
b.	 Number of trading houses where purchases are 
made from
922
804
c.	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of 
total purchases from trading houses
37.14%
34.46%
Concentration of 
Sales
a.	 Sales to dealers/distributors as % of total sales* 
6.08%
5.85%
b.	 Number of dealers/distributors to whom sales 
are made
484
495
c.	 Sales to top 10 dealers/distributors as % of total 
sales to dealers/distributors
25.81%
25.93%
Share of RPTs in
a.	 Purchases (Purchases with related parties /Total 
Purchases) 
0.18%
0.21%#
b.	 Sales (Sales to related parties/ Total Sales)
0.73%
0.13%
c.	 Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to 
related parties /Total loans & advances)*
27.01%
84.03%
d.	 Investments (Investments in related parties/ Total 
Investments made)
97.00%
94.85%
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
No corrective actions were needed as no cases of corruption or conflicts of interest occurred in the financial year 2024-25.
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables (Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods / services procured):
	
Note: The days of accounts payable for financial year 2024- 25, have been restated as per guidance from the Industry Standards 
Note on BRSR Core (SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177 dated December 20, 2024). The relevant 
items under Trade Payables as reported in the financial statement are included against Accounts Payable.
	
SGS India Private Limited has provided reasonable assurance on data reported under this indicator.
9.	
Openness of business: Provide details of the concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, 
and related parties along with loans and advances & investments, with related parties: 
	
Notes: 
	
#The data on Total Purchases in Concentration of Purchases and Purchases in Share of RPT’s for financial year 2023- 24 have 
been restated as per guidance from the Industry Standards Note on BRSR Core (SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/
CIR/2024/177 dated December 20, 2024). 
	
*Sales are primarily to OEM customers. Aftermarket sales are through dealers and distributors. The value considered for Total 
sales is the Revenue from Operations.  SGS India Private Limited has provided reasonable assurance on the data reported under 
this indicator.
23 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial year: 
Total number 
of awareness 
programmes held
Topics/principles covered under the training
% age of value chain partners covered 
(by the value of business done with 
such partners) under the awareness 
programmes
02
Supplier Capability Assessment covering environmental 
statutory and regulatory norms, regulatory norms related to 
banned substances, company laws, and regulations like PT / 
PF / ESIC, employee age, safety policies, safety at work, safety 
culture, etc. (11 suppliers)
36.90%
01
HIRA (105 suppliers)
01
Basics of Electrical Safety (20 Suppliers)
01
CTE, CTO application, and related clauses requirements. (85 
suppliers)
01
Powder coating Process, Troubleshooting and resolution 14 
Supplier (17 Participants)
01
BRSR Compliance and ESG Data Reporting 12 Suppliers
01
Plating process and Troubleshooting 16 Suppliers (18 
Participants)
21
Training to aftermarket vendors (Physical and Online)
597
Standalone Health and Safety, upskilling and POSH training for 
contractual workers
50#
Product information along with features, advantages, and 
benefits, Product Installation Guidelines across Engagement 
initiatives including booster campaigns, mechanic association 
and retailer meets, and product launch events.
No direct value can be determined
	
*These awareness programmes are conducted for downstream value chain partners (retailers and mechanics) who are not the Company’s direct customers; 
hence, the sales value generated from these is not currently evaluated. 
	
#In addition to these 172 Free Service Campaigns and 7 Van Campaigns are conducted for aftermarket distributors to strengthen channel relationships, enhance 
product knowledge, and drive on-ground brand visibility.
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid / manage conflicts of interest involving members of the Board? (Yes 
/ No). If yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes, to ensure the Company’s interests are given the utmost priority, a detailed Code of Conduct for Directors and 
Senior Management Personnel (Code) has been adopted. The Code mandates to disclose conflicts of interest, and 
personal interests in transactions that could potentially conflict with the Company’s objectives are to be declared by 
Directors and senior executives. Serving as a Director in any competing entity is explicitly restricted unless prior consent is 
obtained from the Board, thereby promoting transparency and effective conflict oversight. The Code can be reviewed at: 
https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/code-of-conduct-for-directors-and-smp-april-2024-1.pdf.
	
As per Regulation 26(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, all material financial or commercial transactions are to be declared by 
the Directors and senior management, especially when personal interests conflict with the Company's operations. The Company 
regularly obtains these declarations to maintain compliance and transparency. Following SEBI norms, the Company has also 
established a robust Insider Trading Policy, which prohibits any trading activity in its securities by Insiders, including Directors and 
Designated Persons, while in possession of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (UPSI). Confidentiality, fair disclosure, and 
control over sensitive information form the foundation of this policy.
	
This policy is implemented and enforced by the Compliance Officer, responsible for trade pre-clearances, monitoring 
activities, and investigating potential violations. Anyone who breaches these guidelines may face disciplinary action, 
regulatory sanctions, and legal consequences. This reflects the Company’s dedication to upholding market integrity and 
regulatory compliance. For more details, refer to the Company’s policy on Prevention of Insider Trading at: https://www. 
endurancegroup.com/wp-content/ uploads/2022/11 /Code-of-Conduct-for-Prevention-of-Insider-Trading-2025-1.pdf.
24  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE 
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
PRINCIPLE 2
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of products and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively. 
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D+
100%
90.9%
R&D projects to improve rider safety, energy recovery, material 
conservation, 
light-weighting 
and 
other 
improvements 
in 
environmental and social impacts. For more details, refer to the 
Annual Report section on 'Our Research and Development', Page 
32 and Page 93 in the 'Technology Absorption' section of Annexure 
I to the Board's Report.
Capex 
19.6% *
11%
All investments that have an impact on Environmental and Social 
performance including those that enhance health and safety, 
waste management, efficiency improvement and environmental 
performance (e.g., ZLD, STP, and energy-saving technologies). 
This also includes investments that improve safety, quality, and 
productivity, as they contribute to reducing resource consumption 
and minimising the environmental footprint, thereby supporting 
the protection of our planet. For more details, refer to Page 93 in 
the ‘Conservation of Energy’ section of Annexure I to the Board’s 
Report. 
	
+ The Company’s R&D projects are tailored to market and customer needs by product category. Currently, the Company does not monitor R&D spending at 
a project level with capital and operations expenses in a common pool. The %age is estimated based on the count of projects with specific improvements 
in environmental and social impacts among the total count of R&D projects.
	
* Capex in green building and energy-efficient equipment for new plants has not been considered in the calculations. ~54% of Capex has a positive social 
and environmental impact if Capex in new plants is also considered.  
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? 
	
	
Yes, the Company has implemented a robust set of procedures for sustainable sourcing. Suppliers are selected based on 
their alignment with quality, safety, proximity to the Company’s plant locations, certifications and sustainability performance 
standards. The Supplier Code of Conduct for the Company was revised in the reporting period, and self-certification on its 
compliance was received from all of its raw material and parts suppliers. This helps establish the Company’s expectations 
on environmental, social, and ethical as well as health and safety (EHS) norms. The Company conducts audits on system, 
process, capability, safety, integrity and social parameters for its suppliers both periodically and on a “surprise” basis. 
Suppliers have been prioritised based on the value of purchase, the environmental impacts of their operations and 
supplier risk assessment criteria. The coverage for audits has been planned progressively to ensure a balance between 
coverage and impact.
	
	
The Company also works with its partners to improve their sustainability performance through capability building and 
best practices sharing sessions. In addition, the Company has undertaken an exercise to help drive improvements in the 
environment and other compliances among identified suppliers and monitors their progress. The Company has also co-
innovated to develop sustainability improvement outcomes, including some, where joint patents have been granted. In 
addition, the Company has also implemented initiatives related to the circular economy as part of its green supply chain 
agenda by expanding the use of returnable, reusable and recyclable packaging solutions.  
25 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
	
	
Additional details on sustainable sourcing and green supply chain are available on Page 42 of the Annual Report. The 
awareness and capacity-building programs conducted for the year are mentioned under Principle 1, Leadership Indicator 1. 
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
52.6%. In the reporting year, in addition to other initiatives, the Company has also developed a comprehensive set of criteria 
for its suppliers to self-assess their ESG maturity. 69 Suppliers (33%) have provided feedback based on this self-assessment 
exercise.  In addition, 31 Suppliers, 32.14% participate in sharing their performance on a variety of ESG parameters.  Capital 
Expenditure with positive sustainability impacts has been undertaken using the Company’s sustainable sourcing criteria.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling, and disposal at the end of 
life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste, and (d) other waste.
	
The Company manufactures auto components and supplies them to OEMs and their dealers through its aftermarket channel. 
In accordance with the guidelines set by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways of India (MoRTH), OEMs have adopted 
effective end-of-life vehicle (ELV) strategies. These strategies focus on increasing circularity throughout the vehicle life cycle, 
starting with the design phase, incorporating recycled materials, and continuously enhancing sustainable product packaging. 
Given that the Company’s customers are not the final consumers of the products, it cannot reclaim its products directly. For its 
Aftermarket products, the Company has an exchange policy for parts with manufacturing defects. Plastics and packaging fall 
under the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR), with details provided in Principle 2, Essential Indicator 4. Additionally, all 
other waste generated from its operations, such as E-waste, hazardous waste, and others, is managed as detailed in Principle 6, 
Essential Indicator 10.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes  /  No). If yes, whether 
the waste collection plan is in line with the EPR plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps 
taken to address the same.
	
Yes, under the Plastic Waste Management & Handling Rules, 2016, the Company is responsible for managing plastic waste 
generated across all its operations through Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR). The Company uses Plastic for the packaging 
of its auto-component products and is registered as a “Brand Owner” and as an “Importer”. The EPR plan is submitted to the 
Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The Company successfully recycled 951 MT of plastic in collaboration with authorised 
recycling vendors during financial year 2023- 24, and the certification from these vendors has been submitted to the CPCB as 
part of the annual EPR required is 833 MT for FY 2024-25 which will be complied before due date as per CPCB. 
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for the manufacturing 
Industry) or for its services (for the service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
Leadership Indicators
NIC Code
Name of Product 
/ Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
The boundary for 
which the Life 
Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
Whether conducted 
by an independent 
external agency
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated in the 
public domain (Yes 
/ No) If yes, provide 
the web link.
30913
Suspension 
35.04%
Cradle to Grave
Yes
No
30913
Disc Brake 
Assembly 
(Including rotary 
disc)
14.04%
Cradle to Grave
Yes
No
	
The Company initiated the Life Cycle Assessments for its suspension and braking systems products in financial year 2024-25.
26  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Aluminium Ingots 
75%
75%
	
Note: This excludes the aluminium which is reused in our own operations. 
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at the end of life of products, the amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, 
and safely disposed, as per the following format:
Name of Product / Service
Description of the risk / concern
Action taken
Suspension
Transport and distribution are major 
contributors to environmental impacts 
such as global warming, ecotoxicity, 
resource depletion, and toxicity. 
Raw material sourcing and end-of-
life waste management also present 
risks, particularly concerning resource 
depletion and material toxicity.
Redesigned suspension components 
for easier disassembly and material 
recovery. Optimised logistics to reduce 
transport-related emissions by at least 
15%. Enhanced material circularity 
and waste management practices to 
minimise environmental impact.
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and / or risks arising from the production or disposal of your 
products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective  /  Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly 
describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Re-used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Re-used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including 
packaging)
Not Applicable – Please refer to Principle 2, Essential Indicator 3 for details.
E-waste
Hazardous waste
Other Waste
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as a percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total 
products sold in the respective category
Not Applicable – Please refer to Principle 2, Essential Indicator 3 for details.
	
Note: The Company is currently in the process of interpretation of risks/impacts identified during the LCA exercise for Disc 
Brake Assembly 
27 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including 
those in their value chains
PRINCIPLE 3
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total (A)
Health 
Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity 
Benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
No. 
(B)
%  
(B/A)
No. 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
No. 
(D)
% 
(D/A)
No. 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
No. 
(F)
% (F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male
2,227
2,227
100%
2,227
100%
0
0%
0
0.00%
2,200
98.79%
Female
184
184
100%
184
100%
184
100%
0
0.00%
169
91.85%
Total
2,411
2,411
100%
2,411
100%
184
100%
0
0.00%
2,369
98.26%
Other than Permanent employees
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
	
NA: ‘Not Applicable’
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of workers covered by
Total (A)
Health  
Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity 
Benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
No. 
(B)
%  
(B/A)
No.  
(C)
% 
(C/A)
No. 
(D)
% 
(D/A)
No. 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
No.  
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent workers
Male
1,955
1,955
100%
1,955
100%
0
0%
0
0%
1,955
100%
Female
4
4
100%
4
100%
4
100%
0
0%
4
100%
Total
1,959
1,959
100%
1,959
100%
4
100%
0
0%
1,959
100%
Other than Permanent workers
Male
11,902
11,902
100%
11,902
100%
0
0%
0
0%
11,902
100%
Female
1,788
1,788
100%
1,788
100%
1,788
100%
0
0%
1,788
100%
Total
13,690
13,690
100%
13,690
100%
1,788
100%
0
0%
13,690
100%
	
	
NA: ‘Not Applicable’
	
	
Note: Other permanent workers (Contract labourers) are covered by the Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), 
where they are covered by Health Insurance, Maternity benefits and Accident Insurance.
	
c.	
Spending on measures towards the well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of the total revenue of the 
company.
0.23%
0.24%*
	
	
Note: The well-being measures include health insurance, accident insurance, maternity benefits, paternity benefits, 
employee and staff welfare, medical checkups, and mental health and well-being services, get togethers, rewards, festival 
refreshments, safety shoes, medical checkup, uniforms etc.
28  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
	
	
*Data has been revised and restated for financial year 2023-24 based on guidance on well-being measures and total 
revenue from Operations as per guidance from the Industry Standards Note on BRSR Core (SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/
CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177 dated December 20, 2024).
	
	
SGS India Private Limited has provided reasonable assurance on the data reported under this indicator.
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for the Current FY and Previous Financial Year:
Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employee
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100%
100%
Y
100%
100%
Y
Gratuity
100%
100%
Y
100%
100%
Y
ESI*
2.70%
6.48%
Y
2.39%
7.21%
Y
Others+
3.36%
0%
Y
3.08%
0%
Y
	
* This data is for permanent workers, and 100% of other than permanent workers have PF and ESI (as per eligibility) and contributions are deducted and 
deposited by the labour contractors that are in turn reimbursed by the Company.
	
+ Superannuation Fund, LWF (Labour Welfare Fund) as per applicability in relevant states. 
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces 
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently-abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
The Company currently does not employ any differently abled employees or workers. However, as an Equal Opportunity 
employer, the Company has partnered with a specialised third-party vendor to support compliance with the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities (RPwD) Act, 2016. A comprehensive review of all relevant policies and processes has been completed as part 
of this commitment. Based on the findings, the vendor has provided a set of recommendations, which are currently being 
implemented to align our practices with the requirements of the RPwD Act. Additionally, the vendor is supporting accessibility 
audits at select upcoming manufacturing plants to ensure that the infrastructure is fully compliant with the RPwD Act regarding 
workplace accessibility for people with disabilities.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy. 
	
Yes, the Company has developed an independent Equal Opportunity Policy, which demonstrates its commitment to ensuring 
equal employment opportunities, fostering diversity and inclusion, and maintaining a workplace free from discrimination, all 
while adhering to relevant laws and regulations. The policy is accessible on the Company’s intranet portal and is communicated 
to new employees during their induction. Business leaders and functional heads are responsible for effective implementation, 
supported by regular awareness sessions and employee training. Hiring, promotions, career development, and pay equity 
decisions are based solely on merit, ensuring a discrimination-free approach. Employees are encouraged to provide feedback 
through town hall meetings, suggestion boxes, or an anonymous feedback platform. For more details, please follow the weblink 
https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/equal-opportunity-employer-policy.pdf. 
	
Additionally, the Company has its Endurance Code of Conduct (ECOC), which includes key provisions addressing discrimination, 
with clear protocols for reporting or escalating instances of discrimination or misconduct. The Company maintains a strict non-
tolerance policy toward discrimination based on disability, gender, religion, ethnicity, age, race, or sexual orientation. For more 
details, please follow the weblink https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/ECOC.pdf.
29 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave. 
Gender
Permanent Employees
Permanent Workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
100%
75%
NA
NA
Total
100%
75%
NA
NA
	
NA: ‘Not Applicable’, Parental leave is available only to females, and none of the workers took maternity leave.
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
workers? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief..
Yes / No
(If yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Yes, the Company has a structured Grievance Policy and mechanism to receive and redress 
grievances of the workers (permanent and contractual). Grievances can be submitted to the 
immediate supervisors for resolution within a specified timeframe. Complaints are categorised 
into Working Conditions, Health & Safety, Welfare, Infrastructure, Salary / Wages and POSH to 
help ensure appropriate delegation for redressal. If not satisfactorily resolved, a complaint can 
also be made in writing to the Grievance Committee (GC) through the plant HR Head. Each plant 
has a Grievance Committee, which is chaired by the Plant / Operations Head and includes the 
Plant HR Head, a senior officer, and two workmen representatives. Union members may also 
nominate two representatives to the GC, if applicable. 
The Company conducts monthly grievance redressal meetings for all workers through initiatives 
like ‘Chai pe Charcha’ with the plant head to address department-wide shop-floor challenges. 
The issues raised are shared with a clear action plan, responsibility, and target dates for closure. 
Progress updates, compliance checks, and feasibility reports are regularly provided to the relevant 
individuals.
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
The Company has implemented a comprehensive Grievance Redressal Policy for its employees to 
ensure fair and transparent redressal of feedback and complaints.  Employees can approach any 
member of the Grievance Redressal Committee (GRC) in person or submit their concerns through 
the official grievance mailbox or a dedicated grievance redressal form. Review and unbiased 
inquiry are carried out to determine the alignment of the complaint with the Employee Code of 
Conduct (ECOC), Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) or other aspects. The GRC addresses 
the concern, works towards a resolution, and communicates the outcome to the affected 
employee in person or in writing. Generally, any grievance or query is acknowledged within three 
working days. If the concern is more complex, a preliminary closure timeline is communicated to 
the complainant within seven working days. The aggrieved party and the accused are allowed to 
present their perspectives. Additionally, regular updates and progress reports are provided to 
both parties, ensuring transparency.
Other than Permanent Employees
	
Note: In addition, the Company has provided the Vigil Mechanism-cum-Whistleblower Policy, as an alternative avenue for 
grievance resolution while protecting whistleblowers from potential discrimination, harassment, victimisation, or other unfair 
employment practices. The policy can be accessed at: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/vigil-
mechanism-cum-whistle-blower-policy.pdf.
30  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees/ 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees/ 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (D)
% (D/C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
2,411
0
0%
2,134
0
0%
-	
Male
2,227
0
0%
2,040
0
0%
-	
Female
184
0
0%
94
0
0%
Total Permanent 
Workers
1,959
1,415
72.23%
1,957
1,433
73.22%
-	
Male
1,955
1,415
72.38%
1,952
1,433
73.41%
-	
Female
4
0
0%
5
0
0
7.	
Membership of employees and workers in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
On health and 
safety measures
On skill 
upgradation
Total (D)
On health and 
safety measures
On skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Male
2227
824
37.00%
2041
91.65%
2,040
331
16.23%
1,105
54.17%
Female
184
94
51.09%
173
94.02%
94
29
30.85%
65
69.15%
Total
2411
918
38.08%
2214
91.83%
2134
360
16.87%
1,170
54.83%
Workers*
Male
13,857
7,778
56.13%
7207
52.01%
11,627
4,304
37.02%
3,021
25.98%
Female
1,792
1,027
57.31%
906
50.56%
1,379
348
25.24%
140
10.15%
Total
15,649
8,805
56.27%
8113
51.84%
13,006
4,652
35.77%
3,161
24.30%
Note: The training data excludes regular on-the-job safety sessions, induction training, or on-the-job skills training provided 
to ‘permanent’ and ‘other than permanent’ workers. Similarly, employees based at the plants regularly participate in awareness 
sessions as well as fire, safety and other drills.
*100% of ‘other than permanent’ workers undergo an induction training, which includes a health and safety overview and skilling 
through demonstration and training on the tasks expected
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. (B)*
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)*
% (D/C)
Employees
Male
2227
1913
85.90%
2,040
1830
89.71%
Female
184
86
46.74%
94
60
63.83%
Total
2411
1999
82.91%
2134
1890
88.57%
Workers
Male
1955
479
24.50%
1952
406
20.80%
Female
4
4
100.00%
5
3
60.00%
Total
1959
483
24.66%
1957
409
20.90%
31 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
*Columns (B) and (D) represent the number of employees and workers eligible for performance appraisal. As of 31st March 2025, and 31st March 2024, the remaining 
employees and workers were not eligible for performance and career development reviews due to the terms of their employment. A total of 484 non-unionised 
workers received career development reviews, while unionised workers are compensated in accordance with the provisions of the Long-Term Settlement (LTS). 
Additionally, 60 non-unionised individuals, comprising trainees and probationers, are excluded from this data set as they are not eligible for such reviews during 
their training or probation period.
Note: 100% of the eligible and confirmed permanent employees and workers have received performance management reviews
10.	 Health and safety management system:
	
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes /  No). 
If yes, the coverage of such system?
	
	
Yes, all plants follow the guidelines and principles of the Occupational Health and Safety Management System, with 
nine plants having an ISO-45001:2018 Certification. Occupational Health and Safety is a key organisational priority, with 
a commitment to a "Safety First" and "Zero Harm" culture, which is driven by the Executive Leadership and periodically 
reviewed by the Board, ensuring that safety remains a top organisational priority. The Company’s systems and processes 
undergo regular internal reviews and external audits to maintain the highest safety standards, ensuring continuous 
improvement and compliance. The Company has a plan to expand the coverage of ISO 45001 certification for its remaining 
plants in a phased manner.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the entity?
	
	
The Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment (HIRA) process is fully aligned with the requirements of ISO 45001:2018 
and is implemented across all plants and facilities. The Company identifies and assesses work-related hazards and risks 
associated with routine and non-routine activities. In addition, proactive safety measures such as the Work Permit System, 
HSE internal audits, and Gemba walks strengthen health and safety practices across all operations. Moreover, non-routine 
safety measures like spot checks, management walk-around, and other feedback mechanisms are in place. These efforts 
enable the identification of potential risks on-site and the implementation of appropriate control measures to mitigate or 
eliminate risks, ensuring they remain within acceptable levels. Collectively, these initiatives contribute to a strong safety 
culture that prioritises the health and well-being of all employees, workers and visitors across the Company’s locations.
	
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks. 
(Yes / No)
	
	
Yes, the Company has established formal mechanisms for workers to report work-related hazards and to remove themselves 
or others from potential risks. The Company follows the safety triangle principles with a strong emphasis on preventive 
actions. Workers can report unsafe conditions, near-misses, or hazards through an online safety portal monitored by 
designated safety personnel. Additionally, physical suggestion boxes are placed in all work areas across facilities and are 
reviewed after every shift. Supervisory staff are trained to escalate hazards promptly. In compliance with the Factories Act, 
each operational facility has a Safety Committee that comprises employee representatives which regularly reviews reported 
hazards, discuss risk mitigation measures, and ensure accountability with defined timelines for corrective actions.
	
d.	
Do the employees / workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes / No)
	
	
Yes. The Company provides comprehensive non-occupational medical and healthcare coverage to its employees and their 
families. These include access to a Health Benefit Plan covering free doctor consultations, discounts on diagnostics, surgical 
planning assistance, and annual preventive health check-ups. The Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) has expanded 
its wellness initiatives to address four key dimensions of well-being: physical, mental / emotional, social, and financial. EAP’s 
scope has also been enhanced to include legal, financial, and nutrition counselling and both the Health Benefit Plan and 
the EAP are extended to employees and their immediate family members. Preventive health check-up camps are regularly 
organised at manufacturing facilities to promote early intervention and overall wellness. These programmes are supported 
by regular webinars focused on building awareness, encouraging healthy lifestyle choices, and fostering a culture of well-
being. By promoting mental and physical health, the Company aims to enhance employee focus, engagement, and overall 
workplace productivity. 
	
	
The Company also organises medical camps, health talks and provides periodic access to general healthcare services, and counselling on basic 
healthcare and hygiene. Special activities like women wellness programs are used to augment others focusing on overall health (Mental, Physical, 
Emotional and Social) for all categories of workers. Awareness sessions are conducted in collaboration with government representatives for all workers 
on the Labour Welfare Fund (LWF). The LWF provides several benefits, including financial assistance for education, medical care, and housing, skill 
development and vocational training programmes, as well as support for maternity benefits and child welfare. These are in addition to the ESIC 
32  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	
The Company prioritises a "Zero Harm" and "Safety First" culture and is committed to this mission. Monthly reviews of safety 
performance and improvement initiatives across each plant are conducted by the Managing Director, and safety reviews are also 
a part of a review by the Board. The Company systematically identifies and addresses key leading indicators, such as near misses 
and unsafe acts, which are also a part of the responsibilities of all managerial cadre employees. 
	
Emphasis is placed on risk identification and mitigation to prevent injuries and accidents. This commitment forms the foundation 
for maintaining a safe and healthy workplace for all employees, workers, and contractual personnel. The Company’s Health and 
Safety framework and Management System encompass the following:
	
Policies and Certifications: Strengthened and revised its Health & Safety (H&S) Management Policy in the reporting year. 
External certifications, including ISO 45001, have been achieved for 9 plants, with horizontal deployment across all locations. 
	
Hazard reporting and suggestions: Workers can identify and report harmful conditions, near-misses, or risks through the 
Company’s online safety portal, which ensures timely attention to safety concerns. Each work area is equipped with suggestion 
boxes, which are checked after every shift, providing workers with an additional avenue to report accidents, hazards, or near-
misses related to their tasks.
	
Supervisory Support and Safety Committees: The Company offers strong supervisory support to ensure that hazards are 
reported and addressed without delay, reinforcing a proactive approach to safety. In compliance with the Factories Act, every 
operational facility has a Safety Committee that serves as a key platform for hazard reporting and risk mitigation strategies. 
Worker observations and concerns related to safety and working conditions are recorded and monitored for corrective action. 
Periodic meetings are held with worker representatives to discuss safety concerns, followed by developing actionable plans with 
clear responsibilities and timelines. This ensures ongoing improvement in health and safety practices.
	
Training and Simulations on Health, Safety, and Work Environment: All workers receive induction, generic and specialised 
training through both classroom and digital platforms and on-the-job training. The Company also organises regular mock drills 
and exercises to ensure emergency readiness.
	
Safety awareness and equipment: Safety awareness is promoted through shift-based interventions, signages, and initiatives 
such as Safety Week. Periodic safety engagement activities like the “Chalta Bolta” Quiz competition are held, which fosters 
safety knowledge in a fun, interactive manner. The Company also enforces several safety initiatives, such as work permit systems, 
machine safety interlocks, and strict adherence to PPE guidelines.
	
Rewards and Recognition: As part of our continuous improvement efforts, plant teams actively identify opportunities to enhance 
safety outcomes, implementing initiatives like Kaizen to drive ongoing improvements. The Company encourages sharing safety-
related knowledge and best practices and complements this with rewards and recognition for safety leaders. Acknowledging 
safety leaders through Safety Champion Rounds, encouraging knowledge sharing and best practices.
benefits, where awareness and support are provided to workers to help them avail the benefits they are entitled to. The Company also conducts 
sessions on other government schemes and subsidies to help improve the overall health orientation and well-being of its worker community.
	
	
Employees are also covered under Group Medical Coverage (GMC), Group Personal Accident (GPA), and Workmen’s Compensation (WC) policies. 
These initiatives are overseen by the Health and Wellness Committee to ensure a supportive, inclusive, and health-conscious work environment. 
11.	 Details of safety-related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category*
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one 
million person-hours worked)
Employees
0.05
0.11
Workers
0.05
0.11
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
2 
4
Workers
12
10
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
High-consequence work-related injury or ill health 
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
0 
0
Workers
0
0
	
*Including in the contract workforce 
33 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
	
For further details, please refer to Essential Indicator 10 (above).
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of the 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of the 
year
Remarks
Working Conditions
150
05
The pending 
complaints 
will be 
resolved in 
due course as 
per TAT
146
01
All 
outstanding 
complaints 
were 
redressed.
Health and Safety
151
01
The pending 
complaints 
will be 
resolved in 
due course as 
per TAT
168
08
All 
outstanding 
complaints 
were 
redressed.
	
Note: The Company monitors suggestions and complaints, hence the numbers include suggestions for Health and Safety 
as well as working conditions. The Company monitors this metric on a per-employee and per-worker basis as a KPI, which 
has reduced YoY.  
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory 
authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100% (by entity and third parties)
Working Conditions
100% (by entity and third parties)
	
Note: The Company performs both regular and ad-hoc internal assessments, alongside certification-related third-party 
evaluations. The plants are also audited for Health and Safety practices by its customers and in the reporting year all the plants 
participated in customer audits.  
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices, and working conditions.
	
The Company has undertaken several corrective and preventive actions based on periodic and non-routine assessments of health, 
safety, and working conditions. These initiatives aim to address safety-related incidents, mitigate significant risks, and strengthen 
the overall EHS (Environment, Health & Safety) performance. Corrective actions and new safety initiatives implemented include:
 
 
Communication of Incidents: A structured system to share incident learnings across all locations, fostering a culture of 
transparency, awareness, and continuous improvement.
 
 
Contractor HSE Portal: A dedicated online platform to monitor and elevate health, safety, and environmental compliance 
among contractors and third-party personnel.
 
 
Targeted EHS Training: Risk-specific training modules focused on high-risk activities, aligned with assessment outcomes 
and reinforcing preventive control measures.
 
 
Enhanced Work at Height Safety: Introduction of a formal work permit system and rooftop safety enhancements, such as 
guardrails and fall protection gear.
 
 
Machine Risk Assessments: Comprehensive hazard identification and control implementation to ensure safe operation of 
machines and equipment.
34  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
 
 
Behaviour-Based Safety (BBS) Programme: Ongoing reinforcement of safe behaviours through observation, feedback, 
and employee engagement at all levels.
 
 
Safety First Culture: Campaigns and daily practices that embed safety as a core organisational value, supported by 
leadership involvement and workforce participation.
 
 
Machine Safety Improvements: Upgrades and modifications to ensure compliance with safety standards, including 
emergency stops, interlocks, and guarding mechanisms.
 
 
Workplace Hygiene Drives: Regular hygiene and sanitation initiatives aimed at maintaining clean and healthy 
work environments. 
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of the death of (A) Employees (Y/N) 
(B) Workers (Y/N). 
	
Yes, the Company extends life and compensatory coverage to both employees and workers through the Group Personal 
Accident (GPA) and Mediclaim insurance policies, which provide financial protection in the event of an accident or medical 
emergency. In the unfortunate event of death, eligible family members may also access benefits under the Employees’ Provident 
Fund scheme, including the Employees’ Deposit Linked Insurance (EDLI), and, where applicable, funeral benefits under the 
Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC). Contract workers are covered by the provisions of the ESIC and Labour Welfare 
Fund (LWF) as applicable. 
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the 
value chain partners.
	
All agreements with suppliers, including labour service providers, include comprehensive terms that mandate compliance with 
applicable statutory norms. Additionally, the Company’s Supplier Code of Conduct requires self-declarations related to statutory 
dues. The Company maintains regular communication with contractual labour providers to ensure adherence to statutory 
obligations, including timely payment of Provident Fund, Employees State Insurance, Goods and Services Tax, and wages. 
The Company verifies these compliances before processing bill payments and actively monitors and tracks them to ensure 
full adherence. Other suppliers within the value chain are also periodically audited for their statutory obligations, reinforcing 
compliance across all levels based on a prioritised audit plan.
3.	
Provide the number of employees/workers having suffered high-consequence work-related injury / ill-health / fatalities 
(as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or 
whose family members have been placed in suitable employment: 
Particulars
Total no. of affected employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have 
been placed in suitable employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees
0
0
0
0
Workers
0
0
0
0
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of 
career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
Yes. The Company is in the process of formalising structured transition assistance programmes to support employees at the end 
of their careers, whether through retirement or separation. As per the current policy, medical insurance coverage is extended for 
a period of one-year post-retirement to ensure continuity of healthcare support. The Company also organises financial planning 
sessions to help retiring employees and their families prepare for a smooth and informed transition. 
35 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) 
that were assessed
Health and safety practices
31.37%
Working Conditions
	
Note: 104 suppliers have been audited for safety and work conditions to date, of which 12 are tier 3 (i.e., not direct suppliers 
for the Company). The %age of value chain partners covered by the value of business for these 87 direct suppliers is included, 
along with 15 aftermarket suppliers as well as the contractual workforce.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments 
of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners. 
	
The Company assesses its suppliers based on an assessment of the criticality of safety in their operations and conducts onsite 
audits. These assessments identify specific training requirements, such as electrical safety. The Company provided basic electrical 
safety training to 20 suppliers, and 12 of those (7 direct and 5 indirect) were further assessed on their electrical safety practices. 
	
In the aftermarket business, quality teams conduct system and process audits twice a year to ensure ongoing compliance. 
Suppliers failing to improve or respond to corrective actions are disqualified or terminated, reinforcing the Company’s 
commitment to a safe, responsible, high-performing supply chain.
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all their stakeholders
PRINCIPLE 4
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity. 
	
The vision statement for the Company emphasises continuous value creation for all stakeholders. The Company defines its 
stakeholders as individuals, groups, or entities directly or indirectly impacted by its operations or those that influence its activities 
across the value chain. Key stakeholder groups are identified and prioritised through a materiality-based approach, by evaluating 
the degree to which they are significantly impacted or significantly influence the Company's business. Core stakeholder groups 
include customers, investors, regulators, employees, contract workers, local communities, and relevant government bodies. The 
Company maintains structured engagement with these stakeholders to understand their expectations and incorporate their 
feedback into operational and strategic decision-making. Additionally, the Company considers ESG-focused investors and ESG 
rating agencies to be relevant stakeholders within the broader investor and shareholder ecosystem 
2.	
List of stakeholder groups identified as key for the Company and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group. 
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether identified 
as a Vulnerable 
& Marginalized 
Group (Yes / No)
Channels of communication
Frequency of 
engagement 
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Employees
No
•	 Employee Engagement/ 
Satisfaction Survey
•	 Net Promoter Score 
•	 Human Resources 
Management System (HRMS)
•	 Internal communication
•	 Townhall 
•	 Emails and meetings
•	 Reward and Recognition 
portal 
•	 Annual
•	 Ongoing
•	 Continuous
•	 Need-based
•	 Enhancing organisational 
culture 
•	 Diversity, Equal 
Opportunity 
•	 Career Progression
•	 Rewards and recognition
•	 Employee Wellbeing
•	 Senior leadership 
engagement and 
mentorship
36  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether identified 
as a Vulnerable 
& Marginalized 
Group (Yes / No)
Channels of communication
Frequency of 
engagement 
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Workers
No
 
 Monthly Meeting
 
 Union Meeting 
 
 Daily shop floor meeting
 
 On-the-job training
 
 Work engagement initiatives 
and celebrations
 
 Health and wellness camps
 
 Annual
 
 Ongoing
 
 Continuous
 
 Need-based
 
 Enhancing 
organizational culture 
 
 Diversity, 
Equal opportunity 
 
 Career Progression
 
 Rewards and recognition
 
 Worker Wellbeing
 
 Government schemes
 
 Training - Health 
and Safety, 
POSH and Upskilling
Shareholders 
and investors
No
 
 Annual General Meetings
 
 Quarterly briefings
 
 Periodic investor conferences 
/ calls / meetings
 
 Press releases
 
 Company website
 
 Advertisements
 
 Stock Exchange filing of 
disclosures
 
 Annual
 
 Quarterly
 
 Event-based
 
 Helps in understanding 
the current 
business scenario
 
 Periodic review of 
compliance and 
business strategy
 
 Business updates
 
 Growth plans and 
product pipeline
 
 Financial Performance 
and business updates
Customers
No
 
 Customer meetings
 
 Email exchanges with 
the marketing team
 
 Customer feedback and 
quality assessments
 
 Company’s website
 
 Tech shows at OEM locations
 
 Auto-expo (OEM & 
Aftermarket)
 
 Customer feedback
 
 ESG and Health 
and Safety Audits
 
 Company’s website
Continuous
 
 Continuous improvement 
in the delivery of products 
and services helps in 
remaining competitive 
in the market. 
 
 Concerns related 
to product and 
service-related issues
 
 New business 
opportunities (New 
product or technology)
 
 ESG parameter – RFI / 
Customer visits
Regulators
No
 
 Annual Report
 
 Compliance Reports
 
 Media
 
 Communication with 
regulatory bodies
 
 Policy advocacy
 
 Industry Forums
 
 Representation of industry 
bodies and associations
 
 Statutory Meetings
Ongoing, as and 
when required
 
 Compliance with laws and 
regulations, such as filing 
periodic returns, reports, 
payment of taxes, etc.
 
 Community development
 
 Statutory environmental, 
social and 
governance compliance
37 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether identified 
as a Vulnerable 
& Marginalized 
Group (Yes / No)
Channels of communication
Frequency of 
engagement 
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Vendors and 
suppliers
No
 
 Annual meetings
 
 Supplier Code of Conduct
 
 Suppliers’ assessment
 
 Emails and meetings
 
 Endurance Annual Report
 
 Vendor Portal
 
 Supplier Training
 
 Endurance Vendor  
Association Meetings 
 
 Best Sharing Sessions
 
 Supplier audits and  
capability building
Periodic, as and 
when required
 
 Business continuity
 
 Pricing and negotiations
 
 Service Levels, delivery 
schedules, and Quality
 
 Improving Sustainability
 
 GRN, quality, payment 
information, compliance 
monitoring, Quality 
problem resolution (QFR), 
change management, etc.
 
 Training on SQM, safety, 
and EHS requirements
 
 EVA meetings for policy 
updates, addressing 
supplier concerns
 
 Long-term partnership
Distributors
No
 
 Email 
 
 Governing council 
 
 Field sales team 
 
 Price list & Application  
Catalogue
 
 Continuous
 
 Governing 
Council 
meetings are 
conducted on a 
half-yearly basis.
 
 Sales performance and 
incentive status updates.
 
 Resolving 
commercial issues or 
product-related issues.
Retailers and 
Mechanics
No
 
 Awareness programmes
 
 Loyalty Programme App
 
 Product Catalogue
 
 Price List
Need-based
 
 Please refer to Principle 1, 
Leadership Indicator 1
Local 
Communities
Yes*
 
 Community Meetings
 
 Gram Sabha Meetings
 
 Need Identification
 
 CSR Programmes
 
 Fortnightly/ 
Monthly
 
 Annual
 
 Ad-hoc
 
 Need-based
 
 Vocational Training
 
 Village Development
 
 Water & Sanitation
 
 Agriculture & Livelihood
 
 Health & Nutrition
 
 Education
 
 Community Development
	
*The Company considers Marginalised Communities as those living in villages below the poverty line and/or having land holdings of less than 3 Acres and 
communities having no land holdings.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social 
topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board? (Leadership)
	
The Company has a structured ESG governance framework that encompasses stakeholder management and monitoring 
responsibilities. Functional leaders are responsible and accountable for leveraging stakeholder engagement mechanisms for 
consultation on environmental, social and economic parameters, as outlined under Principle 4, Essential Indicator 2. Feedback 
gathered through these mechanisms is evaluated for any corrective actions by the ESG council, which is chaired by the Executive 
Directors. The Risk Management Committee (RMC) of the Board is responsible for setting the direction of the Company and 
monitoring its performance on ESG parameters. In its half-yearly meetings, the RMC reviews input from stakeholder consultations 
as part of its review of ESG risks and opportunities and provides guidance on appropriate mitigation measures where necessary. 
38  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Relevant updates on the concerns of stakeholders and actions taken by the Company are regularly shared with the Board 
during its meetings.
	
Concerns raised by investors and shareholders are reviewed by the Stakeholder Relationship Committee, while the CSR 
Committee reviews community inputs. These Committees and Board meetings act as key forums for facilitating dialogue, 
capturing stakeholder insights, and ensuring the Board remains well-informed to make responsible decisions on economic, 
environmental, and social issues.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social 
topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were 
incorporated into the policies and activities of the entity. 
	
Yes, stakeholder consultation by various functional teams is leveraged for the identification and management of environmental 
and social topics. These help define the material ESG priorities for the Company and ensure appropriate resources are allocated 
towards incorporating feedback into the policies and operations of the Company. Several corporate policies, including the 
Environment Policy, Health and Safety Policy, Human Rights Policy and Sustainable Sourcing Policy, among others, were revised 
and approved by the Company. These incorporated input from a variety of stakeholders, including customers, as well as guidance 
from regulators. 
	
Multiple new employee policies were launched based on peer benchmarking and employee feedback. The learning and 
development department has designed programmes to upskill Endurance associates and make them future-ready based on 
the competency framework. These include tailored learning workshops on design thinking and 8D, Managerial effectiveness, 
customer centricity, among others. Several employee well-being issues, including financial planning, personal health, and life 
stage (parenting, superannuation), were addressed through focused programs.  
	
The Company takes a proactive approach to supplier relationship management through regular engagements with the 
Endurance Vendor Association (EVA). During the year, 22 interface issues were raised and discussed in periodic meetings 
with the EVA committee and its members. These issues were successfully resolved, reflecting the Company’s commitment to 
responsive and effective supplier engagement. In response to supplier feedback shared with the Company’s senior leadership, 
several corrective actions were implemented to further enhance the functioning of the EVA platform. Formal procedures for 
EVA operations were introduced to improve engagement and operational efficiency, and two dedicated regional clusters were 
established in Chh. Sambhajinagar and Pantnagar. These clusters were designed to address location-specific supplier concerns 
more effectively. Several targeted measures were also rolled out to resolve specific supplier issues. Guidelines for segregating 
Bought-Out Parts (BOPs) were developed and released. Supplier debit note details are now available on the vendor portal 
to improve transparency. Additionally, low-weight parts were excluded from the Short Receipt Penalty, and a Single Point of 
Contact (SPOC) from the Accounts Department was designated to address any delays in payments or other related issues. 
Furthermore, the Company appointed EVA coordinators and cluster-wise SPOCs to strengthen communication and ensure the 
timely resolution of supplier concerns.
	
The Company conducts bi-annual Distributor Governing Council meetings for distributors in the aftermarket business to gather 
market feedback and share best practices, fostering continuous improvement for both itself and its distribution partners. 
Additionally, segment-wise targets have been realigned to focus on top-line revenue, resulting in better inventory management, 
improved cash flow, and enhanced dealer return on investment (ROI). In response to evolving market demands, the Company 
also introduced two new product categories—locksets and CVT belts—expanding its portfolio to serve customer needs better. 
To address concerns on counterfeiting, each unit's MRP label has been equipped with a unique QR code, which can be scanned 
through the Product Catalogue App to verify the product's authenticity. These initiatives reflect the Company’s commitment to 
continuous improvement and strengthening partnerships across its distribution network to deliver superior customer service.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to address the concerns of vulnerable/marginalised 
stakeholder groups. 
	
The Company recognises that access to healthcare remains a critical challenge for marginalised and vulnerable communities, 
especially in rural areas with limited medical infrastructure. As part of its CSR initiatives, the Company had been conducting 
periodic health check-up camps in villages identified under its Village Development Project (VDP), in collaboration with Sevak Trust. 
	
However, based on feedback from community members and beneficiaries, the need for more consistent and reliable healthcare 
access was identified. To address this, the Company implemented a sustainable healthcare delivery model by launching a Mobile 
Medical Clinic initiative in partnership with Kamal Nayan Bajaj Hospital, which commenced operations in April 2024. The mobile 
39 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
clinic is equipped with essential diagnostic tools, including a bed for examinations, blood pressure apparatus, glucometer, 
cell counter, and a stock of required medicines and is staffed by a dedicated medical team comprising a female doctor, a 
female nurse, and a male nurse. Operating on a fortnightly schedule, the clinic serves 47 villages across four blocks in the Chh. 
Sambhajinagar District, ensuring each village receives medical attention twice a month. In FY 2024–25, the initiative reached and 
treated around 4,850 patients, substantially enhancing healthcare accessibility for underserved communities.
Businesses Should Respect and Promote Human Rights
PRINCIPLE 5
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in 
the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Permanent
2,411
2,314
95.98%
2,134
1,656
77.60%
Other than permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Employees
2,411
2,314
95.98%
2,134
1,656
77.60%
Workers
Permanent
1,959
767
39.15%
1,957
1,639
83.75%
Other than permanent
13,690
5,606
40.95%
11,049
3,959
35.83%
Total Workers
15,649
6,373
40.72%
13,006
5,598
43.04%
	
Employee training on Human Rights included POSH training and sessions on non-discrimination and gender sensitivity while 
permanent and other than permanent workers received POSH awareness training in addition to induction and Code of Conduct-
related trainings. 
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. % (E/D)
No.(F)
% (F /D)
Employees
Permanent
2,411
0
0%
2,411
100%
2,134
0
0%
2,134
100%
Male
2,227
0
0%
2,227
100%
2,040
0
0%
2,040
100%
Female
184
0
0%
184
100%
94
0
0%
94
100%
Other than Permanent
0
NA
NA
NA
NA
0
NA
NA
NA
NA
Male
0
0
NA
0
NA
0
0
NA
0
NA
Female
0
0
NA
0
NA
0
0
NA
0
NA
Workers
Permanent
1,959
0
0
1,959
100%
1,957
0
0%
1,957
100%
Male
1,955
0
0
1,955
100%
1,952
0
0%
1,952
100%
Female
4
0
0
4
100%
05
0
0%
05
100%
Other than Permanent
13,690
13,690
100%
0
0
11,049
11,049
100%
0
0%
Male
11,902
11,902
100%
0
0
9,675
9,675
100%
0
0%
Female
1,788
1,788
100%
0
0
1,374
1,374
100%
0
0%
	
NA: ‘Not Applicable’
40  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
3.	
a.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format: 
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of the respective category 
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ / 
wages of the respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)
8
48,85,000
2
1,12,90,000
Key Managerial Personnel 
(KMP)
2
1,37,00,000
0
-
Employees other than 
BoD and KMP
2,223
6,95,212
183
3,03,295
Workers
1,955
7,09,712
4
3,40,031
	
	
Note: The median remuneration provided for Board of Directors is for the active Directors as on 31st March 2025 (During the 
financial year 2024- 25, Mr. Ramesh Gehaney, Executive Director and Mr. Roberto Testore, Independent Director, ceased 
to be Directors of the Company from 5th June, 2024 and 31st August, 2024, respectively).  The remuneration considered is 
the total remuneration paid in the financial year 2024-25 for the active Directors as detailed in the Corporate Governance 
Report on Pages 115-116 of the Annual Report.  The Mmedian rRemuneration values are in INR, and annualised salaries of 
KMPs / Employees / Workers as of March 31, 2025, have been considered for the calculation of median remuneration. The 
count of KMP excludes the Executive Directors included in the Board of Directors. 
	
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format: 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
10.68%
5.93%
	
	
Note: The data includes all permanent and non-permanent employees and workers, and the women workforce within 
them. Data for contractual workers is estimated as per guidance from the Industry Standards Note on BRSR Core (SEBI 
Circular No. SEBI / HO / CFD / CFD-PoD-1 / P /CIR / 2024 / 177 dated December 20, 2024). SGS India Private Limited has 
provided reasonable assurance on the data reported under this indicator.
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual / Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? 
	
Yes, the Company has established a dedicated Human Rights Committee as the focal point responsible for addressing human 
rights impacts or issues that may be caused or contributed to by its operations. This Committee oversees the implementation of 
the Human Rights Policy, evaluates potential and actual human rights risks arising from business activities, and ensures alignment 
with applicable legal frameworks and international human rights standards. The Committee is also responsible for investigating 
reported concerns, recommending corrective actions, and ensuring appropriate redressal and policy enhancements to prevent 
recurrence. In addition, the Human Resources Department supports the Committee by facilitating regular training and awareness 
initiatives, while management at all levels is accountable for operational compliance. Adherence to the policy is also extended 
to the sourcing and supply chain teams, ensuring compliance by third-party vendors and suppliers. This structured approach 
underscores the Company’s commitment to respecting and protecting human rights throughout its value chain. The Human 
Rights Policy can be viewed by accessing the weblink: https://www.endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/human-
rights-policy.pdf.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues. 
	
The Company has established a structured, secure, and confidential grievance redressal mechanism to address human rights-
related concerns. The process is accessible and ensures protection against retaliation. Grievances can be reported through 
the procedures defined in the Company’s Whistleblower Policy, publicly available on the website, or directly via email at 
etl_governance@endurance.co.in. The Human Rights Policy can be viewed by accessing the weblink: https://www.
endurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/human-rights-policy.pdf.
	
All reported cases are overseen by the Human Rights Committee, which appoints an independent investigation team to assess 
grievances, verify their validity, and recommend appropriate corrective measures. The Committee reviews the findings and 
consults with Senior Management to ensure effective resolution and implementation of preventive actions. Outcomes are 
41 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
communicated to the complainant and relevant functional heads to mitigate future risks. The Supplier Code of Conduct requires 
partners to provide self-declarations on human rights compliance to extend accountability across the value chain. Regular audits 
are also conducted to assess adherence, particularly for the prevention of child labour, wages and statutory compliance. For 
details, please refer to Principle 3, Essential Indicator 6.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
the year
Remarks
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
the year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
5
0
All complaints were 
resolved
3
0
All complaints were 
resolved
Discrimination at workplace
0
0
-
0
0
-
Child Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Forced Labour / Involuntary 
Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Wages
109
0
-
133
0
-
Other human
Rights related issues
0
0
-
0
0
-
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013, in the following format: 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition, and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
5
3
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers*
0.29%
0.28%
Complaints on POSH upheld
5
3
	
*Figures for FY23-24 have been restated based on guidance from the Industry Standards Note on BRSR Core (SEBI Circular No. SEBI / HO / CFD / 
CFD-PoD-1 / P / CIR / 2024 / 177 dated December 20, 2024). The denominator is the average number of female employees and workers at the start and 
end of the year. 
	
 SGS India Private Limited has provided reasonable assurance on the data reported under this indicator.
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
The Company is committed to fostering an inclusive work culture that is free from any form of discrimination and harassment. This 
is enabled through the Endurance Code of Conduct, which is reinforced through periodic training. This is further supported by 
the POSH (Prevention of Sexual Harassment) Policy and Grievance Redressal Policy. The Grievance Redressal Committee helps 
address any concerns related to harassment, discrimination, or any violation of the Company's policies. The POSH Committee 
handles cases of sexual harassment. The Vigil Mechanism-cum-Whistleblower Policy ensures that whistleblowers are protected 
from retaliation, discrimination, harassment, victimisation, intimidation, or any unfair treatment, including threats of termination, 
suspension, disciplinary action, transfer, demotion, refusal of promotion, or any other form of adverse action. Further, the policy 
guarantees that no authority will be used directly or indirectly to obstruct a whistleblower’s right to continue performing their 
duties or making further protected disclosures. Employees receiving training on POSH (Prevention of Sexual Harassment), as 
well as Diversity and Inclusion, are provided in Principle 5, Essential Indicator 1. 
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts?
	
Yes, human rights requirements form an integral part of the Company’s business agreements and contracts. All suppliers, vendors, 
and contractual labour providers are required to self-attest and comply with the Company’s Supplier Code of Conduct. This 
explicitly incorporates key human rights principles, including non-discrimination, fair wages, and the prohibition of child labour, 
forced labour, among others. In addition, all value chain partners are expected to adhere to applicable state and central laws 
governing workforce rights and labour practices, which are covered in periodic audits. These requirements are embedded in 
contractual obligations to ensure alignment with the Company’s ethical and legal standards.
42  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
10.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or  
third parties)
Child labour 
100%
Forced / involuntary labour 
100%
Sexual harassment 
100%
Discrimination at workplace 
100%
Wages 
100%
Others – please specify 
Not Applicable
	
The Company’s plants are also audited for Human Rights practices by its customers and in the reporting year all plants 
participated in customer ESG assessments.
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 10 above.
	
No corrective actions were required based on the assessments of the Company’s plants and offices.
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances / complaints. 
	
The Company has not received any grievances  / complaints on human rights issues, excluding those on POSH, as disclosed 
earlier in the report. The Company evaluates its processes to ensure appropriate checks and balances are in place and no 
modifications are necessary.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted. 
	
No comprehensive human rights due diligence was conducted during the reporting year. A specialist external agency has been 
engaged to conduct an assessment of the Company’s facilities and recommend changes to policies, processes and infrastructure 
in compliance with the RPwD Act. ESG audits by the Company’s customers and those conducted on its suppliers include some 
aspects of human rights.  
3.	
Is the premise / office of the entity accessible to differently-abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
	
The Company is currently evaluating ways to make the office areas of the plant premises accessible to persons with disabilities 
by improving infrastructure across all locations. For details, refer to Principle 3, Essential Indicator 3.  
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Leadership Indicators
% of your value chain partners that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities 
or  third parties)
Child labour
42.43%
Forced / involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
NA
	
Note: Data on child labour wages, PF, and ESI is verified during capability audits of selected suppliers. To date, 69 suppliers 
have been audited including aftermarket vendors. Critical issues such as forced labour, sexual harassment, and discrimination 
are also covered in the requirements of the Company’s Supplier Code of Conduct. The coverage by value of business of value 
chain partners assessed through human rights compliance assessment and contract workforce is included.
43 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from the 
assessment 
	
Feedback is provided on best practices and processes to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements and the 
Company’s expectations. 
Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
PRINCIPLE 6
Essential Indicators
Note: Revenue from operations has been considered for all intensity calculations and IMF USD-INR PPP (Purchasing Power Parity) 
data for financial year 2024- 25 at 20.66 has been used as per guidance from the Industry Standards Note on BRSR Core (SEBI Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177 dated December 20, 2024)
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
From Renewable Sources
Total electricity consumption (A) (GJ)
2,17,969
1,93,267
Total fuel consumption (B) (GJ)
0
0
Energy consumption through other sources (GJ)
0
0
Total energy consumption (A+B+C) (GJ)
2,17,969
1,93,267
From Non-renewable Sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
6,40,173
6,39,618
Total fuel consumption (E)
8,82,277
7,43,507
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
0
0
Total energy consumed from non- renewable sources (D+E+F)
15,22,450
13,83,125
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
17,40,418
15,76,392
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
1.97 x 10-05
2.00x 10-05
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
4.06x 10-04
4.14x 10-04
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
Energy intensity (optional) – per Million INR MVA (Manufacturing Value 
Added)
32.27
36.16
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
	
Note: The scope of reporting has been expanded in financial year 2024- 25, and now energy calculations include plants, offices, 
guest houses and company-owned vehicles as well as material handling equipment. Calorific values for fuels are based on 
factors and equations from WRI’s GHG Protocol, EPA.Gov, DEFRA and the 2016 IPCC Protocol. Renewable sources include solar 
and wind energy. Non-renewable fuel sources include diesel, HSD, Furnace Oil, PNG, LPG and LSHS.  
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment /  evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y / N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
Yes, SGS India Private Limited has provided reasonable assurance on the data reported under this indicator.
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve, and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the 
PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
	
No, the Company does not participate in the PAT scheme. 
44  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i)	 Surface water
0
0
(ii)	 Groundwater
1,38,404
1,39,031
(iii)	 Third party water
8,16,112
7,71,179
(iv)	 Seawater  / desalinated water
0
0
(v)	 Others
0
0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (I + ii + iii + iv + v)
9,54,516
9,10,210
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
7,48,608
6,71,844
Water intensity per rupee of turnover 
8.46 x 10-06
8.54 x 10-06
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
1.75 x 10-04
1.76 x 10-04
Water intensity in terms of physical output
Water intensity (optional) – per Million INR MVA
28.15
29.17
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	 To Surface water
	
-	
No treatment
0
0
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(ii)	 To Groundwater
	
-	
No treatment
0
0
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iii)	 To Seawater
	
-	
No treatment
0
0
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iv)	 Sent to third-parties
	
-	
No treatment
0
0
	
-	
With treatment – Primary, Secondary and Tertiary Treatment
2,05,908
2,38,366
(v)	 Others
	
-	
No treatment
0
0
	
-	
With treatment – Primary, Secondary and Tertiary Treatment
0
0
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
2,05,908
2,38,366
	
Note: In the reporting year, the Company conducted internal audits of the water data and identified instances of double-counting 
of water withdrawal for financial year 2023-24. The data has been corrected for financial year 2023-24 to ensure comparability.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y / N). If yes, name of the external agency. Yes, SGS India Private Limited has provided reasonable assurance on the data 
reported under this indicator.
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
	
Note: The water under the category “Sent to third parties” is sent to a Common Effluent Treatment plant (CETP) from some of 
the plants as per the regulatory consent conditions for the plant. The CETP processes and treats (primary, secondary and tertiary) 
the effluents as per Government norms. 
	
Water discharge data has been reclassified and recategorised, and CETP discharge data has been accordingly modified for 
financial year 2024- 23. In addition, treated and recycled water used for the garden has been added to its water consumption. 
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / 
N) If yes, name of the external agency. Yes, SGS India Private Limited has provided reasonable assurance on the data reported 
under this indicator.
45 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.  
	
Yes, the Company has implemented the necessary ZLD (Zero Liquid Discharge) infrastructure at eigh of its facilities viz., those 
located in Chh. Sambhajinagar, Pune, Chennai, Vallam, Sanand, and Halol, to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements 
and Consent-to-Operate (CTO) conditions. Building on this success, the Company plans to assess the feasibility of expanding 
its ZLD capabilities to additional facilities based on specific operational and geographical needs. 
	
The Company places significant emphasis on water conservation and management as a material topic and has undertaken 
targets in that direction. The Company has achieved a 0.94% reduction in water consumption intensity per rupee through 
targeted water management initiatives and ZLD recycling efforts across its plants. The Company deploys advanced technologies 
such as Sewage Treatment Plants (STP), Effluent Treatment Plants (ETP), and evaporation methods to further minimise water 
wastage. The Company has also been actively evaluating opportunities and has invested in rainwater harvesting systems to 
recharge groundwater and reduce its consumption. 
	
Details on water management are available on Page 50 of the “Driving a greener tomorrow” section of the Annual Report.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Nox
MT/Annum
27.76
18.60
Sox
MT/Annum
9.66
7.70
Particulate matter (PM)
MT/Annum
11.52
8.30
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
MT/Annum
NA
NA
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
MT/Annum
568.89
364.07
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
MT/Annum
NA
NA
Others – please specify
MT/Annum
NA
NA
	
Note: SOx, NOx and Particulate Matter calculations have been calculated based on actual fuel consumption based on 
benchmark data from manufacturer specification sheets, EPA.Gov and as per EP Rules 1986. VOC data is estimated based on 
the indicated numbers provided by the paint manufacturers.  The increase in SOx, NOx is due to greater diesel consumption in 
DG sets due to power outage and in VOC due to increased production
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency. 
	
Yes, the Company conducts regular monitoring of air emissions other than GHG. These are carried out quarterly by third-party 
agencies that are approved by the relevant Pollution Control Board (PCB). This rigorous testing supports effective management 
of industrial operations and ensures compliance with all applicable air pollution control standards.
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) and its intensity, in the following 
format: 
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 emissions 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
53,761
44,154
Total Scope 2 emissions 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
1,29,279
1,27,213
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per 
rupee of Turnover
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent / INR
2.07 x 10-06
2.18x 10-06
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee 
of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent / 
USD PPP
4.27 x 10-05
4.50 x 10-05
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms 
of physical output
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional) 
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent / Million 
INR MVA
6.88
7.44
46  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
	
Note: The scope of reporting has been expanded in financial year 2024- 25 and now energy calculations include plants, offices, 
guest houses, refrigerants, process CO2 and company-owned vehicles as well as material handling equipment. Scope 1 Emissions 
calculations are based on factors and equations from WRI’s GHG Protocol, EPA.Gov, DEFRA, and IPCC’s fifth assessment report. 
Factors as per Stationary Combustion (2006 IPCC guidelines) have been used for fuels including diesel for DG sets, HSD, Furnace 
Oil, PNG, and LPG. Scope 2 emissions for operations are calculated based on the Grid Electricity Emission Factors released by 
Central Electricity Authority, Government of India, CO2 baseline database for Indian Power Sector, Version 20, December 2024. 
The increase in Scope 1 is influenced by greater power outages and the additional categories that have been added 
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / 
N). If yes, name of the external agency. 
	
Yes, SGS India Private Limited has provided reasonable assurance on data reported under this indicator.
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
	
The Board and the leadership of The Company recognises the criticality of climate action through mitigation efforts for GHG 
reduction as a core component of its ESG strategy. The Corporate Sustainability team is responsible for strategic long-term 
projects to shepherd the Company’s carbon neutrality ambitions. The Company has achieved time-bound goals as part of its 
ESG roadmap, which is supported by a plant-level ownership and accountability structure. To drive accelerated outcomes, the 
team conducts awareness and capability-building sessions to ensure rapid horizontal deployment of initiatives. Workshops for 
encouraging ideation and implementation of improvement opportunities, along with continuous improvement Kaizens, are 
coupled with appropriate rewards and recognition programs.  GHG emissions performance and progress on improvement 
initiatives are monitored and reviewed monthly at the senior most levels. Several new projects were launched in the financial year 
2024–25 while scaling existing programs across facilities.
 
 
Net Zero Roadmap: The Company is developing a Net-Zero Roadmap as per SBTi guidelines, using verified Scope 1 
& Scope 2 and partially Scope 3 emissions data and LCA insights. It currently focuses on energy efficiency, renewable 
energy expansion, and increasing circular material use. Product redesigns are being guided by carbon hotspot analysis. 
The roadmap will anchor the Company’s decarbonization journey and SBTi target submission.
 
 
Acceleration of Renewable Transition: In addition to existing solar assets, the Company has undertaken a detailed 
techno-commercial assessment of the RE potential at each of its facilities. Solar capacity on the Company's sites was 
expanded, supported by new group captive and long-term Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs). Wind energy generation 
also grew through enhancements to in-house wind power infrastructure.
 
 
Life Cycle Assessments (LCA): As part of a progressive plan, the Company has conducted cradle-to-grave product lifecycle 
assessment for its braking systems (Details are available in Principle 2 Leadership Indicator 1 and 2). The goal is to evaluate 
process and product-level environmental impacts, including embodied carbon, to help guide decisions on manufacturing 
more sustainable products.
 
 
Energy Efficiency Improvements: Energy audits were conducted in select facilities to identify opportunities for energy 
efficiency, and EMS solutions were selectively deployed. Broader use of waste heat recovery from air compressors has 
been implemented, channelling the captured energy into water pre-treatment processes, significantly reducing the need 
for thermal energy. APFC panels and IRIS systems for enhancing power factor and electrical load distribution were used to 
reduce energy losses. Initiatives to optimise the usage of motor energy were expanded through rightsizing motor power, 
wider Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs), and upgrades to energy-efficient IE4 motors. Key machinery and equipment were 
upgraded or retrofitted with advanced, energy-efficient components to elevate energy performance at the operational 
level. Please refer to Conservation of Energy in Annexure I of the Board’s report on Page 93 of the Annual Report for 
additional measures implemented.
 
 
Greening of Supply Chain: With a view to reducing Scope 3 emissions, the Company conducts a variety of engagements 
to improve knowledge and implementation of best practices with its value chain partners. 20 partners are part of a 
sustainability index program that evaluates and grades improvement on sustainability parameters. In addition, it has 
trained some of its top suppliers on sustainable practices and BRSR value chain reporting expectations. In addition, the 
Company has collected the performance of its value chain partners on GHG emissions, besides others, with this BRSR 
ahead of compliance expectations. 
47 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
 
 
Carbon Sequestration through Green Cover: The Company amplified its tree plantation efforts on and around operational 
sites, reinforcing its long-term commitment to capturing carbon and enhancing ecosystem resilience.
	
For a more comprehensive picture of the Company’s approach towards carbon neutrality, please refer to the “Driving a 
greener tomorrow” section of the Annual Report on Page 50.
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
525.77
433.78
E-waste (B)
2.49
3.23
Bio-medical waste (C)
0.00363
NA
Construction and demolition waste (D)
0
0.00
Battery waste (E)
4.89
8.23
Radioactive waste (F)
0
NA
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
3375.3
3,363
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. (Break-up by 
composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
29,321.8
25,619
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
33,230.25
29,427
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover  
(Total waste generated/ Revenue from operations)
3.76 x 10-07
3.74 x 10-07
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
7.76 x 10-06
7.72 x 10-06
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
Waste intensity (optional) –  MT / Million INR MVA
1.25
1.28
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	 Recycled
30,372
26,525
(ii)	 Re-used
0
0
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
1,571
1,304
Total
31,943
27,829
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	 Incineration
306.62
1,008
(ii)	 Landfilling
980.63
590
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
0
0
Total
1,287.25
1,598
	
Note: Incineration is done only for waste streams mandated by Waste Management Rules. In most cases, authorised 
vendors conduct incineration with waste recovery. Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) sludge is disposed of through authorised 
vendors, which is then sent to the landfill. Please refer to Principle 6, Essential Indicator 10 for details on the Company’s waste 
management practices. 
	
Additional waste categories have been identified as part of the ZWTL validation exercise that have been added to the data for 
financial year 2023- 24 to ensure comparability and accuracy. 
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment /  evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / 
N). If yes, name of the external agency. 
	
Yes, SGS India Private Limited has provided reasonable assurance on the data reported under this indicator.
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted 
by your company to reduce the usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the 
practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
The Company maintains a robust waste management framework aligned with statutory requirements and guided by circular 
economy and life cycle thinking. All manufacturing sites are equipped with compliant waste handling infrastructure, including 
48  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
segregated scrap yards, impervious flooring, designated compartments, and fire safety systems. Waste monitoring is carried out 
through physical inspections and ERP-based tracking, while disposal is done through Pollution Control Board-authorised vendors. 
	
The Company complies with Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) under Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) guidelines 
and applies the 3R principles—Reduce, Reuse, Recycle—across operations. Notable initiatives include aluminium scrap 
recycling, sand reclamation in die-casting, returnable packaging, and reuse of wooden pallets. Hazardous substance use is 
minimised through a switch to water-based paints, recovery of heavy metals like chrome and nickel, reduction of hazardous 
material content in  brake liners, and moisture reduction in sludge via decanter and volute press systems. In the financial year 
2024–25, six plants were awarded Platinum-level Zero Waste to Landfill certification by TUV India, reflecting the Company’s 
strategic efforts in source segregation, pre-processing of foundry and packaging waste, and co-processing with cement and 
energy recovery partners. These actions helped divert over 96% of total waste from landfills, also aligning with climate goals by 
reducing Scope 3 emissions. E-waste, bio-medical waste, and battery waste are managed in accordance with the existing Waste 
Management Rules and Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) specific to each category.
	
Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) further support waste reduction planning. As part of its 2030 Sustainability Roadmap, the Company 
aims to achieve 100% landfill diversion and embed waste lifecycle thinking into procurement, design, and operations. Under 
Principle 6 (Leadership Indicator 6), the Company has also identified potential environmental risks in its supplier value chain, 
particularly around the use of hazardous substances. To address this, it is actively working on embedding waste lifecycle thinking 
into procurement, design, and operations. 
11.	 If the entity has operations / offices in / around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones, etc.) where 
environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
Sr. 
No.
Location of  
operations / offices
Type of Operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval / clearance 
are being complied with? (Y / N)
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
None of the Company’s plants / offices are located near notified ecologically sensitive areas.
12.	 Details of Environmental Impact Assessments (“EIA”) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable 
laws, in the current financial year:
Name and brief 
details of the project
EIA 
Notification 
No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in the public domain 
(Yes / No)
Relevant Web link
No Environmental Impact Assessments were conducted by the Company during the reporting period.
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law /  regulations /  guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment Protection 
Act, and rules thereunder (Y / N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
Sr. 
No.
Specify the law  /  regulation  
/  guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details of 
the non-compliance
Any fines  / penalties  / action 
taken by  regulatory agencies 
such as pollution     control 
boards or by courts
Corrective action taken, if any
Not Applicable
	
Yes, all  manufacturing units of the Company are compliant with the applicable environmental laws / regulations / guidelines. It 
uses a compliance management technology platform for monitoring a large range of applicable laws, regulations, and guidelines 
while monitoring compliance status. The Company has also ensured compliance validation through a maker-checker mechanism.
49 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
I.	
Name of the area: Narasapura plant, located in Malur Taluk of Kolar district
	
II.	
Nature of operations: Manufacturing
	
III.	
Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in the following format: 
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Surface water
0
0
(ii)	 Groundwater
16,496
21,332
(iii)	 Third party water
0
0
(iv)	 Seawater / desalinated water
0
0
(v)	 Others
0
0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
16,496
21,332
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
9,625
11,614
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
6.24x10-6
9.14 x10-6
Water intensity (optional) –  the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Not Calculated
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Into Surface water
	
-	
No treatment
0
0
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(ii)	 Into Groundwater
	
-	
No treatment
0
0
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iii)	 Into Seawater
	
-	
No treatment
0
0
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iv)	 Sent to third-parties
	
-	
No treatment
0
0
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
6,871
9,718
(v)	 Others
	
-	
No treatment
0
0
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
6,871
9,718
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / 
N). If yes, name of the external agency. 
	
Yes, SGS India Private Limited has provided reasonable assurance on data reported under this indicator.
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & their intensity, in the following format: 
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
10,546.62
NA
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
1.19x10-7
NA
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
	
The Company has completed its Scope 3 inventory for Waste Generated (Category 5), Business Travel (Category 6) and Fuel and 
Energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 and 2 for Category 3).  The Company is in the process of covering other key 
categories relevant for its scope of operations. The Company will include its progress in subsequent disclosures. 
50  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / 
N) If yes, name of the external agency. 
	
(N) No. Independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has not been carried out by an external agency.
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported in Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details of 
the significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along with prevention and remediation 
activities.
	
The Company does not operate any plants or offices in ecologically sensitive areas and hence has no impact on biodiversity.
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same 
as well as the outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format: 
Sr. 
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if
any, may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1
Energy Efficiency and GHG 
Emissions Reduction
 
 
Intelligent 
Flow 
Controllers 
–Improving 
compressed air efficiency by 3% across operations.
 
 
Upgrade of IE (International Efficiency)3 motors 
to high-efficiency IE4 / IE5 motors as part of the 
Motor Management Programme.
 
 
Installation of Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) 
on hydraulic motors, timer-based controllers for 
lighting and utilities, and Programmable Logic 
Controllers (PLCs) for Gravity Die Casting (GDC) 
machines to optimise energy usage.
 
 
Implementation of magnetic resonators and 
fuel pitch systems to enhance the combustion 
efficiency of Piped Natural Gas (PNG), Liquified 
Petroleum Gas (LPG), and furnace oil.
 
 
Deploy 
energy-efficient 
compressors 
and 
Automatic Power Factor Correction (APFC) panels 
to improve electrical efficiency and power factor.
 
 
Heat recovery units are installed on air compressors 
to reuse waste heat for water heating processes.
 
 
Use gravity conveyors and idle-mode activation to 
reduce energy use in material handling.
 
 
Enhance natural light harvesting via transparent 
roofing sheets and north-light shed design.
 
 
Use of new technology for power quality 
enhancement and electrical load optimisation.
 
 
Use express feeder lines for Diesel Generator 
(DG) 
sets 
to 
minimise 
diesel 
generator 
runtime and emissions.
 
 
Science 
Based 
Targets 
Initiative 
(SBTi) 
Commitment Signed in September 2024, marking 
a formal step toward science-based climate action.
 
 
Scope 1 & 2 Emissions inventory, submission, and 
third-party verification completed in partnership 
with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).
 
 
Scope 3 Emissions Engagement initiated, with 
inventories for key categories (e.g., waste, 
business travel) completed
Achieved measurable 
reduction in energy 
consumption across 
manufacturing operations and 
contributed to a decrease in 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions. For further details 
and quantitative outcomes, 
refer to “Conservation of 
Energy” in Annexure I of the 
Board’s Report in the Annual 
Report (Page 93).
51 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if
any, may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
2
Commitment to SBTi
The Company has formally committed to the SBTi in 
September 2024 to align its decarbonization roadmap 
to reach net-zero by 2050. The Company has completed 
its Scope 1 and 2 emissions inventory and third-
party verification. A structured Scope 3 engagement 
programme is underway, covering relevant categories. 
The Company has also started implementing actionable 
emission reduction projects to operationalise its science-
aligned decarbonization goals.
For further details, refer to 
Page 50 of the Annual Report.
3
Increase the share of 
renewable energy in the 
energy mix.
The Company is advancing its renewable energy 
integration strategy through a combination of on-site 
solar installations, captive wind and solar power, 
and long-term Group Captive / Open Access Power 
Purchase Agreements (PPAs). In the financial year 
2024–25. It has also conducted techno-commercial 
feasibility assessments for hybrid renewable systems 
and actively collaborates with electricity distribution 
companies (DISCOMs) and Maharashtra Energy 
Development Agency (MEDA) to facilitate regulatory 
approvals and streamline net metering processes.
In the financial year 2024-
25 the Company sourced 
99,82,270 units through 
rooftop and captive solar 
installations and 4,60,81,892 
units via PPAs. The 
contribution of renewable 
energy to total electrical 
energy has increased by 
12.78%
4
Shifting to cleaner fossil 
fuels
Transition from High-Speed Diesel (HSD) to cleaner 
fuels such as Piped Natural Gas (PNG) and Liquefied 
Petroleum Gas (LPG) in heat-intensive operations at 
key sites. This shift supports the Company’s broader 
energy transition strategy focused on lowering 
emissions, improving combustion efficiency, and 
aligning with environmental sustainability goals.
Reduction in the SOx & PM 
emissions.
5
Waste Management
Chrome and Nickel recovery processes.
 
 
Adoption 
of 
returnable 
and 
fit-to-purpose 
packaging to cut down packaging waste.
 
 
Waste tracking through Management Information 
System (MIS) and Enterprise Resource Planning 
(ERP) systems to ensure efficient tracking.
 
 
On-site reuse / recycling of aluminium scrap.
 
 
Centralised coolant recycling systems.
Platinum-level Zero Waste 
to Landfill certification at six 
plants. Reduction in waste 
and promotion of circular 
economy principles. 
Please refer to Principle 6, 
Essential Indicator 9 for the 
quantum of impact
6
Water conservation
Recycling effluent through the Zero Liquid Discharge 
system in specific plants, reducing 8% in water usage.
Closed-loop water curtain system for the paint 
process.
Detailed Rainwater Harvesting (RWH) surveys were 
conducted across nine plants to optimise water 
collection and conservation.
Implemented in surface treatment processes to 
reduce water consumption by recycling rinse water.
Cascading Rinse Systems in surface treatment to cut 
rinse water usage
Use of ETP Water for gardening purposes
Reduction in water 
consumption Please refer to 
Principle 6, Essential Indicator 
3 for the quantum of impact
52  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if
any, may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
7
Afforestation
Tree plantation across various regions as part of the 
Company’s afforestation and ecological restoration 
efforts. These initiatives are crucial in enhancing 
carbon sequestration, mitigating climate change by 
absorbing atmospheric CO2. Ongoing monitoring 
ensures sapling survival and long-term integration 
into local ecosystems, strengthening the impact of 
these green development efforts.
In the financial year 2024–25, 
2,20,000 trees were planted for 
improving climate resilience
8
Motor Management
Through its Motor Management projects, and 
conversion of motor connections of grinding 
machines from delta to star configuration.
Energy savings of 2,72,058 
kWh and a 194 metric tonnes 
of CO2 equivalent reduction in 
GHG emissions.
9
Compressed Air 
Optimisation Initiative
Implementation of high-efficiency IE4 compressors, 
Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs), intelligent flow 
control units, and advanced air leak detection 
systems.
Energy savings of 3,35,121 kWh 
and reduced GHG emissions 
by 256 metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
	
Total Impact of energy efficiency projects - Saving of 12,96,616 kWh, ~1% of total electricity consumption. For further details, 
refer to Page 50 of the Annual Report in the section titled ‘Driving a greener tomorrow’.
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words / web link.
	
The Company has a comprehensive Risk Management Framework in place, which covers a variety of natural, people, safety, 
operational and legal risks. Each plant has emergency response teams in place and a structured emergency response plan 
covering relevant risks that is periodically reviewed. Fire drills and mock drills are a part of the risk mitigation plans covered by the 
framework. In addition, ensuring requisite business continuity and disaster recovery management plans from an IT perspective 
are integral to the Company’s Enterprise Risk Management process. These are a part of ISMS which ensures business continuity 
in scenarios of natural disasters at the main Data Centre (DC) site, failure of any business application system / database, or a 
cyber-attack incident. These plans are supported by the preparation of RARTP (Risk Assessment and Risk Treatment Plan) for the 
information assets register and practices related to data backup management, DC-DR drills, etc.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
	
The Company actively monitors its value chain to identify and mitigate environmental risks, and a supplier declaration system 
has been institutionalised to mitigate risks from the use of hazardous materials, ensuring compliance with customer-specific and 
country-specific regulations. 
	
In a supplier audit, excessive heavy oil was discovered on forged fasteners intended for zinc plating, which was contaminating 
the degreasing and plating baths. Despite existing oil skimmers, the residual oil posed a persistent threat to process integrity. 
To address this, the Company implemented a pre-washing system for forged parts prior to plating. This initiative led to a 
reduction of over 50% in plating-line-specific ETP sludge and more than 20% savings in chemical consumption, significantly 
reducing the environmental impact of the plating process. In another case, the Company identified the use of tin flash plating 
for rust prevention—a process categorized under the Red Category due to its high environmental impact. In collaboration with 
the supplier, an alternative solution was recommended by the Company, which, after successful trials, enabled the supplier to 
transition to ultrasonic cleaning combined with rust prevention oil, eliminating the need for plating. This change significantly 
reduced the environmental footprint of the process and brought it into alignment with the Company’s sustainability standards, 
particularly for components such as wheel rims and silencers.
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts. 
	
Consent to Operate (CTO) Compliance audits were conducted at 73 suppliers, including 39 direct and 35 sub-suppliers, who 
specialise in special processes such as surface treatment, castings, and heat treatment, which have relatively greater environmental 
impact risks. The audits aimed to ensure the usage of ETP and STP, proper disposal of treated effluents, hazardous waste 
53 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
management, and monitoring of environmental parameters. These 39 direct suppliers of the Company, along with 15 suppliers 
of aftermarket products, account for 8% of the total value of its business. The Company also extends support to suppliers to 
address gaps to meet compliance as required by their consents. In addition, suppliers contributing to 32.14% of the spend have 
shared their ESG performance data that has been collected and analysed. In total, 40.14% of value chain partners (by value of 
business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental impacts.
8.	
How many Green Credits have been generated or procured: 
	
(a)	
By the listed entity- Nil
	
(b)	
By the top ten (in terms of value of purchases and sales, respectively) value chain partners- Nil
Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent
PRINCIPLE 7
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers / associations. 
	
	
Ten (10)
	
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers / associations (determined based on the total members of such body) 
the entity is a member of / affiliated to. 
Sr. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers / associations
Reach of trade and industry 
chambers / associations (State 
/ National)
1.
International Tube Association - India Chapter
National
2.
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative Ltd
National
3.
Automotive Component Mfrs Assn Of India
National
4.
Confederation Of Indian Industry
National
5.
Engineering Export Promotion Council (EEPC India)
National
6.
Industrial Waste Management Association
National
7.
Maharashtra Economic Development Council
State
8.
Sidcul Enterpreneur Welfare Society
State
9.
Society Of Indian Automobile Manufacture
National
10.
The Indo Italian Chamber Of Commerce
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the 
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.	
	
There have been no adverse orders related to anti-competitive conduct from any regulatory authorities. Hence no corrective 
actions have been deemed necessary by the entity. 
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity: 
Sr. 
No.
Public Policy 
advocated
Method 
resorted for 
such advocacy
Whether information 
available in public 
domain (Yes / No)
Frequency of review of Board 
(Annually / Half Yearly / Quarterly / 
Others-Please Specify)
Web Link- if 
available
The Company does not engage in direct public or regulatory policy advocacy with the government. However, it actively 
participates in various industry and trade associations, as outlined in Principle 7, Essential Indicator 1(b). Through these 
platforms, the Company shares its insights and perspectives on key industry matters, contributing to collective industry 
representations that support informed public policy formulation.
54  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
PRINCIPLE 8
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year.
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in the public domain 
(Yes / No)
Relevant web 
link
The Company is not required to undertake any Social Impact Assessments (As per the SEBI BRSR guidance) under the Right 
to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, in the reporting year.
Name of project 
for which R&R is 
ongoing
State
District
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAF)
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs 
in the FY (in INR)
The Company did not have ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) during the reporting period.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by 
your entity, in the following format:
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
The Company is committed to act as catalysts to equip individuals with the right skills, tools, as well as resources to create a 
sustainable and lasting impact on the communities it operates within. An integral component of its community engagement 
process is a robust grievance redressal mechanism. A suggestions / complaints box is stationed at the Gram Panchayat of 
the villages supported by the Company, World on Wheels (WoW) Bus, and Old Age Day Care Centre to facilitate community 
feedback. These inputs are prioritised jointly by the Gram Panchayat and Sevak Trust (the Company’s CSR implementation 
agency). The CSR team of the Company actively engages with the local community surrounding its manufacturing sites to 
address their issues. Any matters requiring senior management attention are promptly escalated and resolved by the appropriate 
authority. Additionally, the security and HR officers in each plant have a defined protocol to receive, register and resolve any 
complaints from the communities surrounding the plants.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs / small producers
30.88%
29.00%
Directly from within India
92.19%
94.91%
	
Note: SGS India Private Limited has provided reasonable assurance on data reported under this indicator.
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent  /  on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage 
cost.
Location
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Rural
1.24%
0.97%
Semi-urban
46.34%
38.51%
Urban
Nil
Nil
Metropolitan
52.42%
60.52%
	
Note: SGS India Private Limited has provided reasonable assurance on data reported under this indicator.
55 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above): 
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
The Company was not required to conduct any Social Impact Assessments (as per Question 1 of Essential Indicators above) 
during the reporting year, hence no mitigation measures were needed.
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies:
Sr. 
No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In INR)
The Company does not have active CSR projects in any aspirational districts.
3.	
(a)	
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalised / vulnerable groups? (Yes / No)
	
	
No. The Company prefers procurement from local suppliers for goods and services to aid in creating economic opportunities 
in the communities where the Company operates. However, the Company does not have a formal preferential procurement 
policy for marginalised / vulnerable groups.  
	
(b)	
From which marginalised / vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
	
Not applicable
	
(c)	
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
	
Not applicable
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the 
current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
Sr. 
No.
Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned / Acquired (Yes / No)
Benefit shared (Yes / No)
Amount spent (In INR)
No benefits were derived from intellectual properties owned or acquired by the entity based on traditional knowledge in the 
current financial year.
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes 
wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of Authority
Brief of Case
Corrective Action Taken
There were no disputes regarding the usage of traditional knowledge and no corrective actions were necessary.
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects: 
Sr. 
No.
Projects 
Total Beneficiaries
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable 
and marginalized groups
A)	 Village Development Project
1
Water & Sanitation 
4,501
100%
2
Agriculture & Livelihood 
25,594
100%
3
Health & Nutrition 
7,524
100%
4
Education 
13,628
100%
56  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Sr. 
No.
Projects 
Total Beneficiaries
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable 
and marginalized groups
5
Other - Dense Forest
66,995
100%
Sub Total A
1,18,242
100%
B)	 Vocational Training Centre
1
Vocational Training Centre - Candidates, Parents
1,200
100%
Sub Total B
1,200
100%
C) 	Balwadi
1
Balwadi
49
100%
Sub Total C
49
100%
Grand Total A + B+C
1,19,491
100%
	
Note: There are 22,009 direct beneficiaries and the rest are indirect beneficiaries.
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
PRINCIPLE 9
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.  
	
In the  Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) segment, customer complaints are managed by the plant-level Supplier Quality 
Assurance (SQA) team. This team ensures prompt and effective resolution through systematic monitoring and consistent follow-
ups, upholding the Company’s high-quality and customer satisfaction standards. Customers can contact the Company with 
queries related to products, services, or to register grievances through multiple channels. They may contact the Company 
through email at customercare@endurance.co.in, or by phone at 0240-2569723 and +91 8010187593. Additionally, grievances 
can be submitted in person or by post to the registered office at: E-92, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Chh. Sambhajinagar - 431 
136, Maharashtra.
	
A structured complaint management system is in place for the aftermarket segment to ensure timely and effective resolution. 
Complaints from distributors are formally received through email, categorised based on their nature and assigned a defined 
Turnaround Time (TAT) for resolution. These complaints are then routed to the relevant internal teams for appropriate action. 
The Company conducts bi-annual Governing Council meetings to further strengthen engagement and collaboration. These 
meetings serve as a platform to address broader concerns such as product availability, commercial issues, and market feedback, 
fostering continuous improvement in aftermarket support and service delivery.
2.	
Turnover of products and / services as a percentage of turnover from all products / services that carry information 
about 
As a percentage of total turnover  
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product  
6.08%
Safe and responsible usage  
6.08%
Recycling and / or safe disposal  
6.08%
	
Note: The Company ensures that all applicable government regulations related to environmental and social parameters 
including safe and responsible usage, recycling, and proper disposal that are fully adhered to in its primary and secondary 
packaging. Relevant recycling information is displayed on the Company’s products to guide consumers for their responsible 
usage. Used, clean bags are accepted through a buyback programme offered by the Company, with further details available 
under Principle 9, Leadership Indicator 2. In its aftermarket operations, the Company conducts focused awareness sessions for 
downstream value chain partners, emphasising environmental and social responsibilities and safe product usage, in line with 
Principle 1, Leadership Indicator 1.
57 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following: 
Particulars
FY 2024-25
Remarks 
FY 2023-24
Remarks 
Received 
during the 
year 
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of the 
year 
Received 
during the 
year 
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of the 
year 
Data privacy 
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Advertising  
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Cyber-security  
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Delivery of essential 
services  
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Restrictive Trade Practices  
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Unfair Trade Practices 
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Others 
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
	
NA = Not Applicable
	
Note: Customer Complaints are disclosed in Section A, Q25
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number 
Reasons for recall 
Voluntary recalls  
0
Not Applicable
Forced recalls 
0
Not Applicable
5.	
Does the entity have a framework / policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes / No) If 
available, provide a web-link to the policy.
	
The Company has implemented a comprehensive Information Security Management System (ISMS) aligned with ISO 27001:2013, 
underscoring its commitment to cybersecurity and data privacy. The system is certified by the British Standards Institution 
(BSI), with recertification conducted every three years and annual surveillance audits ensuring ongoing compliance. The ISMS 
framework applies to all employees and external stakeholders with access to the Company’s network resources. To maintain high 
levels of awareness and adherence, the Company conducts regular training and awareness programmes, with policies made 
readily accessible via its intranet. A dedicated helpdesk, supported by a ticket management system, addresses security-related 
incidents efficiently. Additionally, the Company leverages advanced cybersecurity tools, including real-time dashboards and 
alert mechanisms, to proactively detect and mitigate vulnerabilities across its IT infrastructure. Cybersecurity and data privacy 
policies are reviewed annually to ensure continued relevance and effectiveness.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of 
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; 
penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.  
	
Not applicable. There were no corrective actions necessary related to advertising, essential services cyber security or data 
privacy neither were there any instances of product recalls or penalties / actions taken by regulatory authorities related to the 
safety of the Company’s products / services. 
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches: 
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches along with impact: No instances of data breaches were reported in the 
financial year 2024-25.
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: None
	
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches: No such impact as no data breaches occurred in the reporting year.
58  
Endurance Technologies Limited
|
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (Contd..)
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if 
available). 
	
Information on the Company’s products can be found on the website: www.endurancegroup.com. The Company participates 
in Auto Expos from time to time, leveraging them as a platform for showcasing products and engaging with customers. In 
addition, the marketing teams from the Company also organise technology and product events at client locations, especially 
for its new products and solutions.  For the aftermarket products, the pricing and catalogue information are accessible through 
the Android app available on the Google Play Store. The Company also partners with retail and mechanic associations to set 
up stalls, product displays, and awareness campaigns. These initiatives are conducted through service campaigns at garages 
and service camps, where products are displayed for mechanics, retailers, and end-users. Mechanic and retailer meetings are 
also held to foster engagement and knowledge sharing. A prominent feature of the Company’s outreach is the Roadshow (Van 
Campaign), where branded vans travel to markets with concentrated garages. These vans engage with mechanics, showcase 
products, introduce new launches, and distribute promotional gifts. Multiple vans operate across different cities, with the total 
number of van days being tracked and collected at the end of the year to measure the campaign’s reach and impact.
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and / or services. 
	
The Company prioritises safe and responsible product usage by consistently raising consumer awareness. It hosts meetings 
with retailers and mechanics to educate them about the products. The Company’s product labels contain all relevant product 
information, safety instructions, and consumer support contact details.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption / discontinuation of essential services. 
	
The Company's operations are not subject to the regulations outlined in the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA). 
Nevertheless, the Company takes a proactive approach by informing its customers about any possible interruptions or 
discontinuations in product availability through its salesforce and various communication channels.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes / No 
/ Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction 
relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity, or the entity as a 
whole? (Yes / No)
	
Product packaging and labelling only apply to the aftermarket business of the Company and it ensures compliance with the 
'Legal Metrology Act' of the Government of India, displaying the required product information on all packaging. This includes 
essential details such as product compliance, company address, consumer contact information, packaging thickness standards, 
and other government-mandated information as outlined in Essential Indicator 2.
	
The Company evaluates customer satisfaction from OEM customers based on the quality performance reports that each plant 
receives periodically from its customers. In addition, the Company diligently engages with customers to determine opportunities 
to improve customer experience and satisfaction levels.   For the aftermarkets business, a quantitative customer satisfaction 
survey was not conducted in the financial year 2024-25. The Company engages with representatives of its aftermarket dealers 
and distributors through a Governance Council. Membership of the Council rotates every six months, based on predetermined 
internal criteria, to ensure diverse representation. Authorised distributors from various segments ranging from two-wheelers 
and three-wheelers to both large and small-scale distributors from metro and rural markets, are included in the Council. These 
members provide valuable input on the Company’s operational strategies, pricing policies, promotional schemes, market fit, 
and other pertinent issues.
	
Disclaimer: In case of any discrepancy in data submitted via XBRL, data reported in the BRSR Report shall prevail.
59 
Annual Report 2024-25
|
01-59
Statutory Reports
