 
 
 
 
 
August 22, 2025 
 
BSE Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street, 
Mumbai – 400 001 
Scrip Code: 543482 
Scrip ID: EUREKAFORB 
Ref.: EFL/BSE/2025-26/31 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block - G, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051 
 
Symbol: EUREKAFORB 
Ref.: EFL/NSE/2025-26/31 
 
Subject : Notice of the 16th (Sixteenth) Annual General Meeting (“AGM Notice”) and 
Integrated Annual Report for the Financial Year 2024-25 of Eureka Forbes 
Limited (“the Company”) pursuant to Regulation 30 and Regulation 34 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time (“SEBI 
Listing Regulations”) 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Pursuant to Regulation 30 read with Paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III and Regulation 34 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations and in continuation to our letter no. EFL/BSE/2025-26/28 and 
EFL/NSE/2025-26/28 dated August 19, 2025, we wish to inform that the 16th (Sixteenth) Annual 
General Meeting of the Company is scheduled to be held on Friday, September 19, 2025 at 12:00 
Noon IST through Video Conferencing (“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) in accordance 
with the relevant circulars issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Securities and Exchange Board 
of India. In this regard, we wish to inform the following: 
 
1. The Notice of 16th (Sixteenth) Annual General Meeting and Integrated Annual Report for Financial 
Year 2024-25 are being sent through electronic mode to all the Members whose email addresses 
are registered with the Company/Registrar and Transfer Agent (“RTA”)/Depository Participant 
(“DP”). The Integrated Annual Report together with the Notice of the AGM is being dispatched to 
the Members today, i.e. August 22, 2025. 
 
2. Further, pursuant to Regulation 36(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a letter providing 
the web-link of the Annual Report, being sent to those members who have not registered their 
e-mail address. 
 
3. In terms of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended and Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Company has provided the facility to its Members to cast their vote electronically 
 
 
 
 
 
through e-voting facility on all the resolutions as set out in the AGM Notice, who are holding 
shares on the cut-off date i.e. Friday, September 12, 2025.  
 
4. The remote e-voting will commence on Tuesday, September 16, 2025 at 09:00 AM IST and end 
on Thursday, September 18, 2025 at 05:00 PM IST. The e-voting instructions and the process 
to join meeting through VC/OAVM is set out in the AGM Notice.  
 
5. The AGM Notice together with the explanatory statement and Integrated Annual Report for 
Financial Year 2024-25 are enclosed herewith.  
 
Thanking you, 
 
For Eureka Forbes Limited 
 
 
 
Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
 
 
Encl: As above 
Pragya Kaul
Digitally signed by Pragya Kaul 
Date: 2025.08.22 20:03:28 
+05'30'
Notice
1
Integrated Annual 
Report 2024-25
NOTICE is hereby given that the 16th (Sixteenth) Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM/the Meeting”) of the Members of 
Eureka Forbes Limited (CIN: L27310MH2008PLC188478) 
(“the Company”) will be held on Friday, September 19, 
2025 at 12:00 Noon IST through Video Conferencing (“VC”)/
Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) in conformity with the 
regulatory provisions and the Circulars issued by the Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) and Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (“SEBI”) to transact the following businesses.
The venue of the AGM shall be deemed to be the Registered 
Office of the Company at B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon 
Innova, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai, 
Maharashtra – 400 013.
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt:
	
a.	
the Audited Standalone Financial Statements 
of the Company for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025 together with the Report of the 
Board of Directors and the Auditors’ thereon; and
	
b.	
the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements 
of the Company for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025 together with the Report of the 
Auditors’ thereon.
2.	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Arvind Uppal (DIN: 
00104992) who retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers his candidature for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS
3.	
To ratify remuneration payable to Cost Auditors.
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“Resolved that pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Rule 14 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, and other applicable provisions if any of the 
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
Corporate Identity Number: L27310MH2008PLC188478
Registered Office: B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg,
Lower Parel, Mumbai, Maharashtra - 400013, India.
Phone No.: +91 22 4882 1700 Fax No.: +91 22 4882 1701
Website: www.eurekaforbes.com; E-mail: compliance@eurekaforbes.com
Notice convening 16th Annual General Meeting
Companies Act, 2013 and Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (including any 
statutory modification(s) or re- enactment thereof) 
as amended from time to time, the remuneration 
of ` 7,00,000 (Rupees Seven Lakhs Only) plus 
applicable taxes and out of pocket expenses payable 
to M/s. J. Chandra & Associates (Firm Registration 
No.: 000384), Cost Accountants, the Cost Auditors 
appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company, to 
conduct the audit of the cost records of the Company 
for the Financial Year ending March 31, 2026 be and is 
hereby ratified and confirmed.
	
Resolved further that the Board or any duly 
constituted Committee(s) of the Board be and is 
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters 
and things as, it may, in its absolute discretion consider 
necessary, expedient or desirable for giving effect to 
the foregoing resolution, and to settle any question, or 
doubt that may arise in relation thereto.”
4.	
Appointment of Secretarial Auditors:
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“Resolved that pursuant to the provisions of Section 
204 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read 
with Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 
24A of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (including any 
amendments and re-enactment thereto), and based 
on the recommendation of the Audit Committee and 
the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, 
the consent of the Members of the Company be and 
is hereby accorded to appoint M/s. Mihen Halani 
& Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, 
(Peer Review Certificate no. 6925/2025) (Proprietor 
Mr. Mihen Halani, FCS No.9926) as Secretarial Auditors 
of the Company for a term of five years commencing 
Eureka Forbes Limited
2
from Financial Year 2025-26 to Financial Year 2029-30, to conduct Secretarial Audit of the Company and to furnish the 
Secretarial Audit Report at a remuneration as set out in the Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Act annexed to 
the Notice convening this Meeting.
	
Resolved further that the Board or any duly constituted Committee(s) of the Board be and is hereby authorised to do 
all such acts, deeds, matters and things as, it may, in its absolute discretion consider necessary, expedient or desirable 
for giving effect to the foregoing resolution, and to settle any question, or doubt that may arise in relation thereto.”
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Eureka Forbes Limited
Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
Membership No: 17167
Place: Mumbai
Date: August 11, 2025
Notice
3
Integrated Annual 
Report 2024-25
Notes:
1.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has vide its 
General Circular No. 14/2020 dated April 08, 2020, 
General Circular No.17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, 
General Circular No. 22/2020 dated June 15, 2020, 
General Circular No. 33/2020 dated September 28, 
2020, General Circular No. 39/2020 dated December 31, 
2020, General Circular No. 10/2021 dated June 23, 
2021, General Circular No. 20/2021 dated December 08, 
2021, General Circular No. 3/2022 dated May 05, 2022, 
General Circular No. 10/2022 dated December 28, 2022, 
General Circular No. 9/2023 dated September 25, 2023 
and General Circular No. 09/2024 dated September 19, 
2024 (“MCA Circulars”) and SEBI Circular No. SEBI/
HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated May 12, 2020, 
SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/ CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 
dated January 15, 2021, SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/
CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated May 13, 2022 SEBI 
Circular 
No. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/ 
PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4 
dated January 5, 2023, SEBI/ HO/CFD/CFD/-PoD-
2/P/CIR/2023/167 dated October 07, 2023 and 
Circular 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 
dated October 3, 2024 (“SEBI Circulars”) and all 
other relevant circulars issued from time to time has 
permitted the holding of the AGM through VC/OAVM 
and has dispensed with the physical presence of the 
Members at a common venue. Hence, Members are 
requested to attend and participate at the ensuing 
AGM through VC/ OAVM facility being provided by 
the Company through National Securities Depository 
Limited (“NSDL”).
	
The deemed venue for the AGM shall be the Registered 
Office of the Company.
2.	
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) with respect 
to the business set out in the Notice mentioning the 
material facts concerning the business Item No. 3 and 
4 is also annexed hereto.
	
Further, the relevant details pursuant to Regulation 
36(3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and 
Secretarial Standards - 2 on General Meetings issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, in 
respect of Director seeking re-appointment at this 
AGM is also annexed.
3.	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a Member 
entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to 
appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his/her behalf 
and the proxy need not be a Member of the Company. 
Since this AGM is being held pursuant to the MCA 
Circulars and SEBI Circulars through VC/OAVM facility, 
physical attendance of Members has been dispensed 
with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of 
proxies by the Members will not be available for the 
AGM and hence the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip 
are not annexed to this Notice.
	
Since the Company will hold the AGM through VC/ 
OAVM, without the physical presence of the Members 
in terms of MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, the 
route map for the Venue of the Meeting is not annexed 
to this Notice.
	
However, the Body Corporates are entitled to appoint 
authorised representatives to attend the AGM through 
VC/OAVM and participate there at and cast their votes 
through e-voting.
4.	
The Members can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM 
mode 30 minutes before the scheduled time of the 
commencement of the AGM. The Company may close 
the window for joining the VC/OAVM facility 15 minutes 
after the scheduled time to start the AGM. The facility 
of participation at the AGM through VC/OAVM will 
be made available for 1,000 Members on first come 
first serve basis.
	
This will not include large Members (Members holding 
2% or more shareholding), Promoters, Institutional 
Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, the 
Chairperson(s) of the Audit Committee, Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee, Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee and Auditors, who are allowed to attend 
the AGM without restriction on account of first come 
first serve basis.
	
The attendance of the Members attending the AGM 
through VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose of 
reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
5.	
In compliance with the provisions of Sections 108 of the 
Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014 (“Rules”), Regulation 
44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial 
Standard – 2, the Company is providing remote 
e-voting facility to enable Members to cast their votes 
electronically on the matters included in this Notice. 
For this purpose, the Company has engaged the 
services of National Securities Depository Limited 
(“NSDL”) to provide e-voting facility to enable the 
Members to cast their votes electronically. The facility 
of casting votes by a Member using remote e-voting 
system as well as e-voting at the AGM will be 
provided by NSDL.
	
Members are requested to follow the procedure as 
stated in the instructions of this Notice for casting of 
votes electronically.
	
The cut-off date for determining the Members eligible 
to vote on resolution proposed to be considered 
at the Meeting is Friday, September 12, 2025. 
The remote e-voting period will commence on 
Eureka Forbes Limited
4
Tuesday, September 16, 2025 at 09:00 AM IST and 
ends on Thursday, September 18, 2025 at 05:00 PM 
IST. The remote e-voting will not be allowed beyond 
the aforesaid date and time. The remote e-voting 
module shall be disabled thereafter.
	
The Resolution will be deemed to have been passed 
on the date of the Meeting, if approved by the 
requisite majority.
	
Only those Members whose names are appearing on 
the Register of Members/List of Beneficial Owners as 
on the cut-off date, shall be entitled to cast their vote 
through remote e-voting or voting through VC/OAVM at 
the AGM, as the case may be. A person who is not a 
Member on the cut-off date should treat this notice for 
information purpose only.
	
The Members who have cast their vote by remote 
e-voting prior to the AGM may also attend and 
participate in the proceedings of the AGM through 
VC/OAVM but shall not be entitled to cast their votes 
again. The Members can opt for only one mode of 
voting i.e. remote e-voting or e-voting at the AGM.
6.	
The 
Board 
of 
Directors 
have 
appointed 
Mr. Mihen Halani, Proprietor of M/s. Mihen Halani 
& 
Associates, 
Practicing 
Company 
Secretaries 
(Membership No. FCS 9926 and CP No. 12015), as 
the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the remote e-voting and 
e-voting at the AGM in a fair and transparent manner. 
The Scrutinizer will submit his report to the Chairman/
Company Secretary of the Company after completion 
of the scrutiny of the remote e-voting and e-voting 
at the AGM. The results will be announced by the 
Chairman/Company Secretary of the Company within 
two working days from the conclusion of the AGM 
and will be posted on the Company’s website at 
www.eurekaforbes.com and will also be posted on the 
website of NSDL at www.evoting.nsdl.com. The results 
shall also be intimated to the Stock Exchanges where 
the shares of the Company are listed i.e. BSE Limited 
at www.bseindia.com and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited at www.nseindia.com.
7.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 113 of the 
Act, Body Corporate Members who intend their 
authorised representative(s) to attend the AGM are 
requested to send, to the Company, a certified copy 
of the Resolution of its Board of Directors or other 
governing body, authorizing such representative(s) 
along with the respective specimen signature(s) of 
those representative(s) authorised to attend the AGM 
through VC/OAVM facility and participate thereat and 
cast their votes through e-voting. The said resolution/ 
authorization shall be sent to the scrutinizer by an e-mail 
through its registered e-mail address to compliance@
eurekaforbes.com / mihenhalani@mha-cs.com with a 
copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in. Such Members 
can also upload their Board Resolution/ Power of 
Attorney/Authority Letter etc. by clicking on “Upload 
Board Resolution/Authority Letter” displayed under 
“e-voting” tab in their login.
8.	
The Members may also note that the Notice of the 
AGM and Integrated Annual Report for the Financial 
Year 2024-25 is also available on the Company’s 
website at www.eurekaforbes.com and on the 
website of Stock Exchanges where the shares of the 
Company are listed i.e. BSE Limited at www.bseindia.
com, National Stock Exchange of India Limited at 
www.nseindia.com and also on the website of NSDL 
at www.evoting.nsdl.com for download. Members may 
note that relevant documents referred in the Notice 
shall be made available in accordance with applicable 
statutory requirement based on request received 
by the Company for inspection at compliance@
eurekaforbes.com.
9.	
Voting rights shall be reckoned in proportion to the 
paid-up equity shares registered in the name of 
the Members as on the Cut-off date being Friday, 
September 12, 2025.
10.	 Members who would like to express their views/ 
have questions may send their questions in advance 
mentioning their name, demat account number/
folio number, e-mail address, mobile number at 
compliance@eurekaforbes.com. Questions/queries 
received by the Company during the period starting 
from Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Sunday, 
September 14, 2025 shall only be considered and 
responded during the AGM. Members who would 
like to express their views or ask questions during 
the AGM may register themselves as a speaker by 
sending an e-mail to compliance@eurekaforbes.com 
starting from Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to 
Sunday, September 14, 2025, mentioning their name, 
demat account number/folio number, e-mail id and 
mobile number. Those Members who have registered 
themselves as a speaker will only be allowed to 
express their views/ask questions during the Meeting. 
The Company reserves the right to restrict the number 
of questions and number of speakers, as appropriate 
for smooth conduct of the AGM, depending on 
availability of time. The queries may be raised precisely 
and in brief to enable the Company to answer the 
same suitably depending on the availability of time 
at the Meeting.
11.	 In terms of section 101 of the Act, read with the rules 
made thereunder, the listed companies may send 
the notice of AGM along with the Integrated Annual 
Report 2024-25 by electronic mode. Pursuant to the 
said provisions of the Act read with MCA Circulars 
and SEBI Circular, electronic copy of the Notice of 
the AGM of the Company are being sent to all the 
Members whose e-mail address are registered with 
the Company/Depository Participant(s).
Notice
5
Integrated Annual 
Report 2024-25
	
For Members who have not received the notice due 
to change/non-registration of their e-mail address 
with the Company/RTA/Depository Participants, they 
may request, for the notice and Integrated Annual 
Report 2024-25 by sending an e-mail at rnt.helpdesk@
in.mpms.mufg.com 
or 
compliance@eurekaforbes.
com. Post receipt of such request and verification of 
records of the Member, the Member would be provided 
soft copy of the notice and Integrated Annual Report. 
It is clarified that for registration of e-mail address, 
the Members are however requested to follow due 
procedure for registering their e-mail address with the 
Company/Registrar & Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”) in 
respect of physical holdings and with the Depository 
Participants in respect of electronic holdings. 
Those Members who have already registered their 
e-mail addresses are requested to keep their e-mail 
address validated with their Depository Participants/
RTA/Company 
to 
enable 
servicing 
of 
notices/
documents electronically to their e-mail address.
	
The 
Members 
who 
have 
not 
received 
any 
communication regarding this AGM for any reason 
whatsoever and are eligible for vote are also entitled 
to vote and may obtain the User ID and password or 
instructions for remote e-voting by contacting NSDL at 
evoting@nsdl.co.in.
	
Any person becoming the Member of the Company 
after the dispatch of Notice of the Meeting and 
holding shares as on the cut-off date for e-voting i.e. 
Friday, September 12, 2025 may obtain the User ID 
and password by referring to the e-voting instructions 
attached to this Notice and also available on the 
Company’s website www.eurekaforbes.com and the 
website of NSDL www.evoting.nsdl.com. Alternatively, 
Members may send request providing the e-mail 
address, DP ID/Client ID, mobile number, number of 
shares held and self-attested PAN copy via e-mail 
to rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com for obtaining 
the Notice of AGM.
12.	 As per Regulation 40 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
securities of listed companies can be transferred only 
in dematerialized form with effect from April 01, 2019. 
Further, the transmission and transposition of securities 
shall also be effected in dematerialized form only as 
per 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 
dated January 25, 2022. In view of this and to eliminate 
all risks associated with physical shares and for ease 
of portfolio management, Members holding shares in 
physical form are requested to consider converting 
their holdings into dematerialized form. Members can 
contact the Company or Company’s Registrar and 
Transfer Agent – MUFG Intime India Private Limited 
(formerly known as Link Intime India Private Limited) 
for assistance in this regard.
13.	 Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/655 
dated November 3, 2021 and SEBI/HO/MIRSD/ 
MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022 
has mandated the listed Companies to issue securities 
in demat form only while processing service requests, 
vis. Issue of duplicate securities certificate, claim from 
Unclaimed Suspense Account, Renewal/Exchange 
of securities certificate, Endorsement, Sub-division/ 
Splitting 
of 
securities 
certificate, 
Consolidation 
of securities certificates/folios, Transmission and 
Transposition. And after verifying the same the RTA/ 
Company shall issue ‘Letter of Confirmation’ in lieu of 
physical securities certificate(s) within 30 days of its 
receipt after removing objections, if any, which shall 
be valid for a period of 120 days from the date of its 
issuance. Accordingly, Members are requested to 
make service requests by submitting a duly filled and 
signed Form ISR – 4, the format of which is available 
on the Company’s website.
14.	 Nomination: Members can avail the facility of nomination 
in respect of shares held by them in physical form 
pursuant to Section 72 of the Act read with relevant 
rules. Members desiring to avail of this facility may 
send their nomination in the prescribed Form SH – 13 
duly filled in and signed to the Company or RTA.
15.	 Instructions for Members for remote e-voting and 
joining Annual General Meeting are as under:
	
The remote e-voting period begins on Tuesday, 
September 16, 2025 at 09:00 AM IST and ends on 
Thursday, September 18, 2025 at 05:00 PM IST. 
The remote e-voting module shall be disabled by 
NSDL for voting thereafter. The Members, whose 
names appear in the Register of Members/Beneficial 
Owners as on the record date (cut-off date) i.e. 
Friday, September 12, 2025, may cast their vote 
electronically. The voting right of Members shall be in 
proportion to their share in the paid-up equity share 
capital of the Company as on the cut-off date, being 
Friday, September 12, 2025.
	
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting 
system?
	
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system 
consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
Eureka Forbes Limited
6
	
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
	
A.	
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual Members holding securities in demat 
mode
	
	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained with 
Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and email Id 
in their demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility.
	
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities 
in demat mode with 
NSDL.
1.	
For OTP based login you can click on  https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/
evoting/evotinglogin.jsp. You will have to enter your 8-digit DP ID,8-digit Client Id, 
PAN No., Verification code and generate OTP. Enter the OTP received on registered 
email id/mobile number and click on login. After successful authentication, you will 
be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on 
company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to 
e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or 
joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
2.	
Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. https://eservices.
nsdl.com either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home 
page click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under 
‘IDeAS’ section , this will prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. 
After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services under Value 
added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will 
be able to see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider 
i.e. NSDL and you will be re-directed to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your 
vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the 
meeting.
3.	
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://
eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://
eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
4.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once 
the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is 
available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have 
to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number hold with NSDL), 
Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful 
authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see 
e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and 
you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
5.	
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” 
facility by scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
Notice
7
Integrated Annual 
Report 2024-25
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with CDSL
1.	
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing 
user id and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without 
any further authentication. The users to login Easi /Easiest are requested to visit CDSL 
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and 
then user your existing my easi username & password.
2.	
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for 
eligible companies where the evoting is in progress as per the information provided 
by company. On clicking the evoting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting 
page of the e-Voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting 
period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there are 
also links provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the 
user can visit the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
3.	
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL 
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then 
click on registration option.
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account 
Number and PAN from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The 
system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded 
in the Demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting 
option where the e-voting is in progress and also able to directly access the system of all 
e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual Shareholders 
(holding securities in 
demat mode) login 
through their depository 
participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your 
Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. Upon logging in, 
you will be able to see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to 
NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting 
feature. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be 
redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting 
period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website.
	
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to 
login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL 
helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.com or call at 022 - 
4886 7000
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL 
helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or 
contact at toll free no. 1800-21-09911
	
B.	
Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
	
	
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
	
	
1.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.
nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
	
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification Code as 
shown on the screen.
Eureka Forbes Limited
8
	
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL 
eservices i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at https://
eservices.nsdl.com/ with your existing IDEAS 
login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after 
using your log-in credentials, click on e-Voting 
and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote 
electronically.
	
4.	
Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding 
shares i.e. Demat (NSDL 
or CDSL) or Physical
Your User ID is:
a)	
For Members who 
hold shares in demat 
account with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID 
followed by 8 Digit 
Client ID
For example if your 
DP ID is IN300*** 
and Client ID 
is 12****** then 
your user ID is 
IN300***12******.
b)	
For Members who 
hold shares in demat 
account with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary 
ID
For example if your 
Beneficiary ID is 
12************** 
then your user ID is 
12**************
c)	
For Members holding 
shares in Physical 
Form.
EVEN Number 
followed by Folio 
Number registered 
with the Company
For example if 
folio number is 
001*** and EVEN is 
101456 then user 
ID is 101456001***
	
5.	
Password details for shareholders other than 
Individual shareholders are given below:
	
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-Voting, 
then you can user your existing password to 
login and cast your vote.
	
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for 
the first time, you will need to retrieve the 
‘initial password’ which was communicated 
to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial 
password’, you need to enter the ‘initial 
password’ and the system will force you to 
change your password.
	
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
	
i.	
If your email ID is registered in your 
demat account or with the company, 
your ‘initial password’ is communicated 
to you on your email ID. Trace the 
email sent to you from NSDL from your 
mailbox. Open the email and open the 
attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open the 
.pdf file. The password to open the 
.pdf file is your 8 digit client ID for 
NSDL account, last 8 digits of client ID 
for CDSL account or folio number for 
shares held in physical form. The .pdf 
file contains your ‘User ID’ and your 
‘initial password’.
	
	
	
ii.	
If your email ID is not registered, 
please follow steps mentioned below 
in process for those shareholders 
whose email ids are not registered.
	
6.	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not 
received 
the 
“Initial 
password” 
or 
have 
forgotten your password:
	
	
a)	
Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If 
you are holding shares in your demat account 
with NSDL or CDSL) option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
b)	
Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are 
holding shares in physical mode) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the password by 
aforesaid two options, you can send a request 
at evoting@nsdl.com mentioning your demat 
account number/folio number, your PAN, 
your name and your registered address etc.
	
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the votes 
on the e-Voting system of NSDL.
	
7.	
After entering your password, tick on Agree 
to 
“Terms 
and 
Conditions” 
by 
selecting 
on the check box.
	
8.	
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
	
9.	
After you click on the “Login” button, Home page 
of e-Voting will open.
	
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join 
General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
	
How to cast your vote electronically and join 
General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
	
1.	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able 
to see all the companies “EVEN” in which you 
are holding shares and whose voting cycle and 
General Meeting is in active status.
Notice
9
Integrated Annual 
Report 2024-25
	
2.	
Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to 
cast your vote during the remote e-Voting period 
and casting your vote during the General Meeting. 
For joining virtual meeting, you need to click on 
“VC/OAVM” link placed under “Join Meeting”.
	
3.	
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the 
Voting page opens.
	
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options 
i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number of 
shares for which you wish to cast your vote and click 
on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
	
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed.
	
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast 
by you by clicking on the print option on the 
confirmation page.
	
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you 
will not be allowed to modify your vote.
	
General Guidelines for shareholders
	
1.	
Institutional Members (i.e. other than individuals, 
HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned 
copy (PDF/JPG Format) of the relevant Board 
Resolution/ Authority letter etc. with attested 
specimen signature of the duly authorized 
signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to the 
Scrutinizer by e-mail to mihenhalani@mha-cs.com 
with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in and 
the Company at compliance@eurekaforbes.com. 
Institutional Members (i.e. other than individuals, 
HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload their Board 
Resolution/ Power of Attorney/Authority Letter 
etc. by clicking on “Upload Board Resolution/
Authority Letter” displayed under “e-voting” tab 
in their login.
	
2.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your 
password with any other person and take utmost 
care to keep your password confidential. Login to 
the e-voting website will be disabled upon five 
unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct 
password. In such an event, you will need to go 
through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or 
“Physical User Reset Password?” option available 
on www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
	
3.	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and 
e-voting user manual for Shareholders available 
at the download section of www.evoting.nsdl.com 
or call on.: 022 - 4886 7000 or send a request to 
(Name of NSDL Official) at evoting@nsdl.com
	
Process for those shareholders whose email 
ids are not registered with the depositories for 
procuring user id and password and registration of 
e-mail ids for e-voting for the resolutions set out in 
this notice:
	
1.	
In case shares are held in physical mode please 
provide Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned 
copy of the share certificate (front and back), 
PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card), 
AADHAR (self attested scanned copy of Aadhar 
Card) by email to compliance@eurekaforbes.com 
or rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com.
	
2.	
In case shares are held in demat mode, please 
provide DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 
16 digit beneficiary ID), Name, client master 
or copy of Consolidated Account statement, 
PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card), 
AADHAR (self attested scanned copy of Aadhar 
Card) to compliance@eurekaforbes.com. If you 
are an Individual shareholder holding securities 
in demat mode, you are requested to refer to 
the login method explained at step 1 (A) i.e. 
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual 
meeting for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode.
	
3.	
Alternatively, shareholder/members may send a 
request to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user 
id and password for e-voting by providing above 
mentioned documents.
	
4.	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 
on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode are allowed to vote through their 
demat account maintained with Depositories 
and Depository Participants. Shareholders are 
required to update their mobile number and email 
ID correctly in their demat account in order to 
access e-Voting facility.
THE 
INSTRUCTIONS 
FOR 
MEMBERS 
FOR 
e-VOTING ON THE DAY OF THE EGM/AGM ARE 
AS UNDER:
1.	
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the EGM/
AGM is same as the instructions mentioned above for 
remote e-voting.
2.	
Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be 
present in the EGM/AGM through VC/OAVM facility 
and have not casted their vote on the Resolutions 
through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred 
from doing so, shall be eligible to vote through e-Voting 
system in the EGM/AGM.
3.	
Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting 
will be eligible to attend the EGM/AGM. However, they 
will not be eligible to vote at the EGM/AGM.
Eureka Forbes Limited
10
4.	
The details of the person who may be contacted for 
any grievances connected with the facility for e-Voting 
on the day of the EGM/AGM shall be the same person 
mentioned for Remote e-voting.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING 
THE EGM/AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS 
UNDER:
1.	
Member will be provided with a facility to attend the 
EGM/AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL 
e-Voting system. Members may access by following 
the steps mentioned above for Access to NSDL 
e-Voting system. After successful login, you can see 
link of “VC/OAVM” placed under “Join meeting” menu 
against company name. You are requested to click 
on VC/OAVM link placed under Join Meeting menu. 
The link for VC/OAVM will be available in Shareholder/
Member login where the EVEN of Company will be 
displayed. Please note that the members who do not 
have the User ID and Password for e-Voting or have 
forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve the 
same by following the remote e-Voting instructions 
mentioned in the notice to avoid last minute rush.
2.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through 
Laptops for better experience.
3.	
Further Members will be required to allow Camera 
and use Internet with a good speed to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
4.	
Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile 
Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via 
Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due 
to Fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore 
recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection 
to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
5.	
All 
queries/ 
grievances 
connected 
with 
the 
NSDL e-voting system may be addressed to 
Ms. Pallavi Mhatre, Senior Manager, National Securities 
Depository Limited, Trade World, ‘A’ Wing, 4th Floor, 
Kamala Mills Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower 
Parel, Mumbai 400 013 or send an email to evoting@
nsdl.com or call : 022-48867000 and 022-24997000.
Notice
11
Integrated Annual 
Report 2024-25
Item No. 3:
As per the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) 
Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, the Company is 
required to have an audit of its cost records conducted by 
a cost accountant in practice for products covered under 
the said rules.
The Board, based on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, has approved the appointment of M/s. J. Chandra 
and Associates, Cost Accountants (Firm Registration 
No.: 000384), as the Cost Auditors to conduct the audit 
of the cost records of the Company, for the Financial Year 
ending March 31, 2026, at a remuneration of ` 7,00,000/- 
(Rupees Seven Lakhs Only) plus applicable taxes and 
reimbursement of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses.
In accordance with Section 148(3) of the Act, read with 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the 
remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors as recommended 
by the Audit Committee and approved by the Board of 
Directors has to be ratified by the Members of the Company.
Accordingly, the consent of the Members is sought for 
passing an Ordinary Resolution as set out in Item No. 3 of 
the Notice for ratification of the remuneration payable to the 
Cost Auditors, for the Financial Year ending March 31, 2026.
The Board recommends ratification of remuneration of Cost 
Auditors, as set out in Item No. 3 of the Notice for approval 
by the Members as an Ordinary Resolution.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company or their respective relatives are concerned or 
interested (financially or otherwise) in the Resolution at Item 
No. 3 of the accompanying Notice.
Item No. 4:
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
vide its Notification dated December 12, 2024, has 
made several changes in SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”). As per requirements of 
amended provisions of Regulation 24A of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations read with the provisions of Section 
204 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and related 
Rules, the Board of Directors of the Company, based 
on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, has 
recommended appointment of M/s. Mihen Halani & 
Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, (Peer Review 
Certificate no. 6925/2025) (Proprietor Mr. Mihen Halani, 
FCS No.9926), as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company 
for a period of 5 years from Financial Year 2025–26 to 
Financial Year 2029–30. The recommendations are based 
on meeting eligibility criteria and qualifications under the 
Act, Rules, and Listing Regulations, considering audit 
count, technical skills, experience, audit team capability, 
independent assessment, experience with large listed 
entities, and past audit quality. The proposed fee to be 
paid to M/s. Mihen Halani & Associates is ` 1,65,000/- 
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
(Pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013)
(Rupees One Lakh Sixty-Five Thousand) per annum plus 
applicable taxes and other out-of-pocket expenses for 
Financial years 2025-26 and 2026-27 and for subsequent 
terms of their appointment at such remuneration as 
may be agreed between the Board of Directors of the 
Company and Secretarial Auditor from time to time, on 
recommendation of Audit Committee. There is no material 
change in the proposed fee payable to the Secretarial 
Auditor compared to the fees paid to them in the previous 
financial year.
Brief Profile of M/s. Mihen Halani & Associates is as 
follows:
Mihen Halani & Associates (“MHA”), was established 
in the year 2013. MHAs’ versatile team has extensive 
company secretarial, governance and legal expertise 
spanning a wide range of specialisms, industries & sectors. 
The team closely works with the Board to provide a suitable 
governance framework in a wide range of organizations 
from unlisted/listed companies, start-ups to multinational 
companies. The team has been successful in planning and 
implementing innovative strategies to meet the dynamic 
nature of law and business. MHA adheres to the highest 
professional standards to provide quality and time bound 
services. MHA has established values and work ethics 
which have paved the way towards achieving governance 
standards in organizations at various levels. MHA looks 
forward for creating a path that shall create a brand value 
which is synonymous to trust and value addition.
M/s. Mihen Halani & Associates have consented to act 
as Secretarial Auditor and have furnished a certificate 
confirming that that they are not disqualified to be appointed 
as Secretarial Auditor under the provisions of the Act and 
SEBI Listing Regulations read with SEBI Circular dated 
December 31, 2024.
Accordingly, the consent of the Members is sought for 
passing an Ordinary Resolution as set out in Item No. 
4 of the Notice for Appointment of Secretarial Auditors from 
Financial Year 2025-26 to Financial Year 2029-30.
The Board recommends Appointment of Secretarial 
Auditors, as set out in Item No. 4 of the Notice for approval 
by the Members as an Ordinary Resolution.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company or their respective relatives are concerned or 
interested (financially or otherwise) in the Resolution at Item 
No. 4 of the accompanying Notice.
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Eureka Forbes Limited
Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
Membership No: 17167
Place: Mumbai
Date: August 11, 2025
Eureka Forbes Limited
12
Details of Director seeking re-appointment at the 16th Annual General Meeting of the Company pursuant to 
Regulation 36 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard – 2 on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India
Name of the Director
Mr. Arvind Uppal
DIN
00104992
Nationality
Indian
Date of first appointment on the Board
April 26, 2022 as an Additional Director
Date of Birth and Age
June 19, 1962 (63 Years)
Qualifications
B. Tech, MBA
Capacity
Non-Executive and Non- Independent Director
Experience and expertise in Specific Functional 
Areas/Brief resume
Mr. Arvind Uppal holds a Masters in Business Administration from FMS 
Delhi and has completed an Executive Program at I.M.D. Switzerland. 
With over thirty-one years in the consumer industry, he first gained 
prominence at Nestlé, particularly for his work on the Maggi brand 
across multiple countries.
Mr. Arvind Uppal served as President Asia Pacific for Whirlpool 
Corporation, leading a notable operational turnaround. Presently, Mr. 
Arvind Uppal is the Non-Executive Chairman of Whirlpool of India Ltd. 
and a Director at Gulf Oil Lubricants India Limited.
He holds board positions at Amber Enterprises India Limited and acts 
as an Industry Advisor to Advent International.
List of Directorship held in other Companies
Listed Entities:
•	
Whirlpool of India Limited
•	
Gulf Oil Lubricants India Limited
•	
Amber Enterprises India Limited
Unlisted Companies:
•	
Tirex Transmission Private Limited
•	
Life Style International Private Limited
•	
IL Jin Electronics (India) Private Limited
•	
Tuscan Ventures Private Limited
•	
One Degree Turn (OPC) Private Limited
Companies from which the Director has 
resigned in the past three years
Nil
Membership/Chairmanship in the Committees 
of the Boards of Companies in which he is a 
Director as on March 31, 2025
Whirlpool of India Limited:
•	
Audit Committee – Member
•	
Nomination and remuneration Committee – Member
•	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee – Chairman
•	
Risk Management Committee – Member
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member
Gulf Oil Lubricants India Limited:
•	
Nomination and remuneration Committee – Chairman
•	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee – Chairman
•	
Risk Management Committee – Chairman
Notice
13
Integrated Annual 
Report 2024-25
Amber Enterprises India Limited:
•	
Audit Committee – Member
•	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee – Chairman
•	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee – Chairman
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member
Eureka Forbes Limited:
•	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee – Chairman
•	
Risk Management Committee – Member
IL JIN Electronics (India) Private Limited:
•	
Audit Committee – Chairman
•	
Nomination and Remuneration – Member
Terms 
and 
Conditions 
of 
appointment/
reappointment
In terms of Section 152(6) of the Companies Act, 2013, appointment 
as a Non-Executive Non- Independent Director subject to retirement 
by rotation
Details of remuneration sought to be paid
Entitled to sitting fees for attending meetings of the Board/Committees 
and annual commission
Last drawn remuneration
Kindly refer the section titled ‘Report on Corporate Governance’ of 
the 16th Integrated Annual Report of the Company accompanying this 
Notice
Number of meetings of Board attended during 
the year
Attended all the 5 Board Meetings that were held during his tenure in 
the Financial Year 2024-25.
Number of shares held in the Company 
including shareholding as a beneficial owner
Nil
Justification for choosing the individual for 
appointment as an Independent Director
Not Applicable
Relationship with other Directors’/KMPs
Not related to any Director/Key Managerial Personnel
Contents
Building Our Capitals
Financial Capital
Intellectual Capital
Manufactured Capital
Human Capital
Natural Capital
Social and Relationship 
Capital
To view this report online and for 
further information, visit our website:
www.eurekaforbes.com
2	
About Eureka Forbes
10	
Transformation Opportunity
1 Corporate Overview
14 Stepping Up. Delivering Impact.
22	
Chairman’s Message 
24	
MD & CEO’s Message
22 Leadership Messages
28	
Value Creation Model
30	
Financial Capital
36	
Intellectual Capital
44	
Manufactured Capital
48	
Human Capital
54	
Natural Capital
58	
Social and Relationship Capital
28 Value Creation
62	
Risk Management
66	
Governance
72	
Board of Directors
74	
Key Managerial Personnel
74	
Management Executive Committee
75	
Awards
76	
Corporate Information
62 Our Governance Structure
77	
Management Discussion & Analysis
86	
Board’s Report with Annexures
77 Statutory Reports
167	 Standalone
244	 Consolidated
167 Financial Statements
About This  
Integrated Annual Report
Our Integrated Annual Report for 2024-25 presents a 
comprehensive overview of performance and progress achieved 
in our transformation journey. It marks a significant step towards 
enhanced transparency and our commitment to positive change 
for all stakeholders of Eureka Forbes Limited.
Reporting Period
The Integrated Annual Report covers 
the period from April 1, 2024 to 
March 31, 2025, and includes an 
exhaustive analysis of historical 
data trends wherever applicable. 
It includes all aspects of our business 
operations and strategy. It also 
explains the Company’s business 
model and overall performance, 
along with the outcomes of our 
actions and performance during the 
reporting period.
Reporting Boundary
This report extends beyond financial 
reporting, and includes non-financial 
performance, opportunities, risks 
and outcomes, which relate to our 
key stakeholders and significantly 
impact our ability to create value. 
All the information presented in this 
report pertains to the Standalone 
& Consolidated operations of 
Eureka Forbes Limited unless 
otherwise specified.
Feedback
We seek regular feedback from 
our stakeholders to enable us to 
address their queries and provide 
clarifications on material topics 
that capture their key concerns. 
Any feedback, suggestions, or 
stakeholder concerns can be 
communicated to us via email at 
compliance@eurekaforbes.com, or 
sent to Eureka Forbes Limited, B1/
B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova, 
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower 
Parel, Mumbai - 400013, India.
Agreed Standards 
(National & Global)
The non-statutory section of the 
report has been prepared based 
on the guiding principles and 
content elements of the International 
Integrated Reporting Council’s 
(IIRC) Integrated Reporting <IR> 
framework, now part of  
the IFRS Foundation. 
The statutory and financial section 
of the Report has been prepared in 
accordance with:
Companies Act, 2013 (and the 
Rules made thereunder)
Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015
Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS)
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) 
based on the National Guidelines 
for Responsible Business 
Conduct (NGRBC)
Secretarial Standards issued 
by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (ICSI)
Forward-Looking Statements
In this report, we have disclosed information to help investors and shareholders comprehend our prospects and take 
informed investment decisions. This report, and other statements – written and oral – that we periodically make, contain 
information that lists out anticipated results based on the Management’s plans and assumptions. We have tried, wherever 
possible, to identify such statements by using words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expects’, ‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, 
‘believes’, and words of similar substance, in connection with any discussion of future performance. We cannot guarantee 
that all projections will be realised, although we believe we have been prudent in our assumptions. The achievement of 
results is subject to risks, uncertainties and even inaccurate assumptions. Should any known or unknown risk or uncertainty 
materialise, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, 
estimated or projected. Readers should keep this in mind. We undertake no responsibility to publicly update any 
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Eureka Forbes
One of India’s leading health and hygiene brands, Eureka Forbes Limited (EFL) has been 
serving the country’s growing aspirational need for clean solutions for more than four 
decades. The Company shines in the country’s consumer ecosystem as a multi-product and 
omni-channel organisation, which is on transformational path to deliver greater impact on the 
lives of Indians. It is driven by a strong brand visibility that resonates with a growing customer 
base, and is continually stepping up its efforts to enhance consumer experience and trust.
 An Iconic Brand	
 Diversified Portfolio
 Omnichannel Presence	
 Pan-India Service Network
 Prioritising the Customer
Customer First
Leadership Through 
Ownership
Innovate Boldly & Lead 
Change
OUR VALUES
Grow  
Water
Penetration
Premiumisation
Expand 
Portfolio
Excel In 
Service
Grow  
Digital  
Business
EFL As D2C, 
Health Tech Company
Innovations
Execution 
Excellence
Productivity
Capability
Culture
Customer Centricity, Agility, Collaboration, Ownership and Accountability
Mindset of Everyday 
Great Execution
Collaboration
Building People  
for Growth
OUR VISION AND TRANSFORMATION STRATEGY
Convenient  
Cleaning
Customer  
Experience
Convenience
Air
Lifetime Value
Commerce
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
2
3
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Eureka Forbes Limited
Market leaders  
in water purifiers
Market leaders  
in vacuum cleaners
An Iconic Brand
A pioneering presence in water purifiers, vacuum cleaners, air purifiers, softeners and services 
makes EFL the trusted choice of millions of Indians seeking affordable, healthy living.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
4
5
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
4,500+
Frontline Teams
70+
National and Regional  
Modern Trade Accounts
Partnerships with 
21,000+
Outlets Across  
2,700+ Towns
Available in 
Omnichannel Presence
DIRECT SALES
GENERAL TRADE
MODERN RETAIL
E-COMMERCE
D2C
B2B
Diversified Portfolio
Our innovation-led products are designed to deliver a lifetime of health and happiness to our 
customers. Our range of products address diverse consumer needs.
Water Purifiers
Delivering healthy, clean 
and safe drinking water
Air Purifiers 
Purifying indoor air & 
protecting from airborne 
diseases
Filters 
Nanopore 2X Filter  
with 2-Year Life
Water Softeners 
Makes hard water  
100% soft
Vacuum Cleaners
Ensuring convenient 
cleaning
	 Brand name Aquaguard 
	 Powered by RO & UV purification technologies
	 Caters to 21+ water conditions
	 Brand name Forbes
	 Surround 360° Air Intake with True 
HEPA 13 filters 
	 4-stage filtration removes 99.97% 
particulate matter
	 Nanopore long-life filters
	 2 years’ protection from 
pollutants & contaminants
	 No annual filter 
replacement needed
	 Soft water for healthier hair,  
skin & cleaner bathrooms
	 Range from bathroom to 
whole-home installations
	 Fully automatic, high efficiency  
& lowest running cost
	 Wide range: canister, handheld, upright & robotic
	 Cleans diverse surfaces in wet & dry modes
	 Powered by advanced, innovation-led tech
Eureka Forbes stands out as the sole omni-channel player within our operating categories, 
with a comprehensive presence across all trade formats and a balanced revenue profile.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
6
7
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Prioritising the Customer
At Eureka Forbes, we are deeply committed to fostering long-lasting customer relationships 
through exceptional service and innovations. By leveraging digital tools and a certified service 
workforce, we consistently elevate the customer experience — offering convenience, quality, and 
personalised care.
We ensure seamless experience 
for our customers
Convenience is embedded 
throughout the customer lifecycle 
– from ordering the product to its 
after-sales service
We continually strive to enhance our 
direct relationships with customers
Digital-based complaints and sales 
help strengthen our customer 
service touchpoints
We offer fast and convenient booking 
through the user-friendly Eureka 
Forbes Service App
Our service technicians are certified 
experts, ensuring seamless and high 
quality assistance
Pan-India  
Service Network
Long-lasting consumer 
relationships built on trust
Continuous expansion into new 
and underpenetrated regions
Robust team of partners and 
service technicians
Our unique service network brings us into 
the homes of our consumers, and close 
to their hearts. It also serves as a strong 
competitive moat. 
19,500+
pin codes
In-home service in 
>14 
million
Data base of  
customers
8,000+
Service Technicians
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
8
9
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
13% CAGR
` 23K CR
MARKET SIZE*
Transformation Opportunity
Eureka Forbes’ transformation journey is supported by favourable tailwinds, 
translating into enhanced potential for growth across categories. Demand for 
water purifiers, vacuum cleaners and air purifiers is witnessing a significant 
step-up in growth, as manifest in the continuous increase in the total 
addressable market for these categories.
Large Total Addressable Market 
Low Penetration Categories 
Long Runway for Growth
Water Purifier
6% penetration
Market size: ` 4.4k Cr in FY23 ->  ` 10k Cr in FY30
CAGR of 13%
Vacuum Cleaner
2% penetration
Market size: ` 0.5k Cr in FY23 -> ` 1.5k Cr in FY30
CAGR of 17%
Water Softener
Market size: ` 1k Cr in FY23 -> ` 1.9k Cr in FY30
CAGR of 10%
Water Purifier Service
Market size: ` 3.7k Cr in FY23 -> ` 9k Cr in FY30
CAGR of 14%
Air Purifier
<1% penetration
Market size: ` 230 Cr in FY23 -> ` 749 Cr in FY30
CAGR of 18%
Source: Consumer Market Purification Devices in India – A Whitepaper by Technopak (reproduced with permission)
* Projected combined market size as of FY30
Value 
Unlock
 Large Total 
Addressable 
Market (TAM) 
` 23K Cr
Categories 
with low 
penetration 
from <1% to 6%
High Gross  
Margin %  
and High  
ROCE business  
model
Favourable  
Macro Drivers
ROCE - Return on Capital Employed
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
10
11
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Eureka Forbes Limited
Robust Business Model
Our business model is designed to deliver the benefits of operating leverage to the Company. It is equipped 
to generate strong cash flows, translating into sustainable financial growth for the future. The model is 
structured around our diverse product and channel mix, robust service revenue stream, healthy gross 
margins, and low capex intensity, and we remain focussed on strengthening these growth enablers.
Favourable Macro Drivers
Growing Incomes
The middle class is the fastest-growing segment of India’s population, projected to reach 
1 billion by 2047.
Urbanisation
By 2036, 40% of Indians will live in towns and cities, up from 31% in 2011, driving 
demand for home appliances.
Working Women
Female Labour Force Participation increased from 33% in 2022 to 37% in 2023, leading to 
higher demand for convenient household solutions.
Unpredictable house help availability
This has significantly increased the need for convenient cleaning options.
Eureka Forbes aims to capitalise on multiple external factors such as rising income and rapid 
urbanisation which are reshaping India’s demographic landscape. Increased female workforce, 
widespread electrification and greater access to piped water have further improved living  
standards. Alongside these shifts, growing emphasis on health, hygiene and convenience is  
driving consumer demand.
Universal electrification
There is an increasing number of households gaining uninterrupted access to 
electricity, enabling wider adoption of electronic appliances, thereby contributing to the 
overall market growth.
Piped water availability
Since 2019, around 150 million+ households have been provided access to safe drinking 
water through piped connections. The aim is to increase functional piped water connections 
significantly in remote areas, thereby improving overall quality of life.
Increasing importance to Health & Hygiene
Growing importance for healthy water and increased frequency of cleaning homes post covid
Low  
Penetration
Long  
Growth  
Runway
High 
Profitability 
& Low  
Capex
High  
ROCE*
High  
Gross  
Margin & 
Operating  
Leverage
Low Capex, High ROCE*  
& FCF Conversion
Capex of ` 50-60 crore annually, 
ROCE > 350%, FCF to PAT of 131%
Operating Efficiency
640 bps Improvement in  
Opex in Last 2 Years
Healthy Gross Margin
Range Bound Between 58% - 60%
Annuity-Based  
Service Model
Consistent Revenue Stream 
with Upfront Cash
Straddling All Channels  
and Price Points
Balanced Revenue Profile
Healthy Revenue Mix
Product Service Split of 2:1
*ROCE = EBIT / Capital employed,  EBIT = EBITDA - Depreciation & Amortisation + Other Income  
 Capital employed = Tangible Net Worth + Total Debt + Deferred Tax Liabilities
Source: PIB, NSO; India 2030: Middle class majority to fuel shift to experience-led spending, Campaign India, PLFS, MoSPI, 
World Bank, Access to electricity - Data for India
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
12
13
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
STEPPING UP.
DELIVERING IMPACT.
Our transformation efforts over the last two years have started to deliver significant 
on-ground impact in terms of both growth and profitability. They have also led to 
a notable step-up in the scale of our innovations and digitisation, enabling Eureka 
Forbes to reclaim its thought leadership and strengthen its market position. 
Our concerted initiatives and investments have enabled our categories to grow fast 
and be future ready to deliver long term success.
	 Stepping up Growth & Penetration	
	 Stepping up Investments
	 Stepping up Innovation Muscle	
	 Stepping up Customer Experience
	 Stepping up Service Growth	
	 Stepping up Profitability
	 Stepping up Cultural Transformation
STEPPING UP Growth & Penetration
(%)
Overall Growth: Innovation & Volume Led
FY25
12.0%
7.9%
FY24
6.1%
FY23
(%)
Product Business Growth
FY25
17.0%
12.7%
FY24
(%)
Electric Water Purifier Growth
FY25
18.1%
10.6%
FY24
(%)
Vacuum Cleaner Growth
FY25
12.8%
18.9%
FY24
(%)
Sustained Growth: 6 straight quarters of double-digit growth
16.8%
Q3
FY24
11.4%
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
10.8%
14.7%
11.3%
FY25
10.9%
Growth for Continuing Business 
Product Business Growth = (Water purifier+Vacuum cleaners+Air purifier+Softeners)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
14
15
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Eureka Forbes Limited
STEPPING UP Investments
~11%
of revenue invested  
in A&SP v/s ~9% in FY23
2x 
Scale-up in R&D annual  
spends to ~20 Cr
~3x 
Capex spends at an 
average of ` 45 Cr per year 
since last 2 years
 
  A&SP spends (` crore)     
  A&SP as % of revenue
(` in crore)
Growth investments 
FY25
260
FY24
207
FY23
190
9.1%
9.4%
10.7%
9%
25%
(` in crore)
Capital Expenditure
FY25
59
29
FY24
19
FY23
(` in crore)
R&D Investment
FY25
20
19
FY24
10
FY23
STEPPING UP Innovation Muscle
India’s Slimmest  
Water Purifier
India’s First  
Truly Smart IoT  
Water Purifier
India’s 1st Instant  
Hot Water Purifier
Widest Range of 
Long Life Filters
New Air Purifiers 
Launched
30+ New Innovative 
Products Launched
3x Increase in Range  
of Robotic Cleaners
Gross Capital Expenditure
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
16
17
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Introduced call masking 
to address issues 
related to leakage
Tiered AMCs for different 
consumer cohorts 
(price ranging from  
` 599 to ` 6,799)
QR code-based filters 
introduced with new design 
to enable customers to 
authenticate genuine filters
Genuine service 
awareness campaigns
Actions against parallel 
market – legal actions, actions 
against counterfeiters
Incorporated a separate  
GTM strategy for filter sales 
80%+
Digital bookings  
for complaints  
~100%
Digital collection 
1.6M+
Active app users
Highest Ever 
Customer 
NPS
STEPPING UP Customer Experience 
STEPPING UP Service Growth 
Incentivisation for Faster 
Turn Around Time (TAT) : 
24-Hour TAT at 83%
Focus on Outlier 
Service Experience
Convenient App-Based 
Complaint Booking -  80% 
Complaint Bookings 
via Digital Assets
Customer Call Masking
Improved 
Availability of Spares
Legal Actions 
Against Parallel 
Market Counterfeiters
Service 
Growth
Eureka Forbes Limited
18
Corporate Overview
19
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
10-fold increase in PAT 
between FY23 and FY25
Strong business 
model with high 
gross margins and 
cashflows, leading to 
exceptional ROCE 
Transitioned from a 
net debt company 
to achieving a net 
surplus position
Achieved margin expansion 
led by structured cost 
optimisation program, 
underscoring our commitment 
to sustainable profitability
(%)
Opex: 640 bps Improvements 2 Years
FY25
46.6%
48.5%
FY24
53.0%
FY23
-453 bps
-187 bps
Net Surplus
Robust Cash Generation & High ROCE
Particulars (` in crore)
FY25
Free Cash Flows (FCF)
214
Profit after Tax
163
Free Cash Flow % to Profit after Tax
131%
Capex
55
Free Cash Flow / Capex
3.9x
Return on Capital Employed*
353%
Adj. EBITDA Margin: Consistent Improvement 
(%)
FY25
11.7%
10.3%
FY24
6.3%
FY23
(` in crore)
FY25
284
122
FY24
FY23
STEPPING UP Profitability
STEPPING UP Cultural Transformation
-31
Customer  
First
Leadership 
Through 
Ownership
Innovate 
Boldly and Lead 
Change
Mindset of  
Everyday 
Great Execution
Building 
People for 
Growth
Collaboration
*ROCE = EBIT / Capital employed,  EBIT = EBITDA - Depreciation & Amortisation + Other Income  
 Capital employed = Tangible Net Worth + Total Debt + Deferred Tax Liabilities
Eureka Forbes Limited
20
21
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
The programme and the processes are now well 
embedded and will continue to be a critical performance 
lever. Being a low capex business gives Eureka Forbes a 
strong competitive advantage and enables us to deliver 
a high ROCE to our investors. The Company’s Capex for 
FY25 stood at ` 55 crore, in line with the average annual 
capex of ` 50-60 crore.
On the governance front, the listing of Eureka Forbes 
on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) marked another 
milestone moment in our transformation journey. 
Cognisant of our role as a responsible citizen focussed 
on inclusive, responsible and sustainable growth, we 
expanded the ambit of our CSR efforts to positively 
impact 1.72 times more beneficiaries than in the previous 
financial year. 
UNLOCKING THE OPPORTUNITY
The clear Step Up in our performance of FY25 has laid 
a robust foundation for the Company to maximise the 
growth opportunities going forward. A combination of 
very favourable macro enablers and your Company’s 
long-term investments will be critical to unlocking this.
On the macro side, with middle class the fastest 
growing segment of India’s population, higher 
disposable incomes will be a key factor powering 
category expansion. Urbanisation, along with increasing 
participation of working women in the labour force, 
growing electrification, and an expanding piped water 
network, are other factors promising continued growth. 
The enhanced importance given to health and hygiene, 
coupled with the increasing popularity of premium 
lifestyle, will further contribute to our growth prospects. 
The current low penetration across categories in 
India offers significant headroom for growth in all our 
business segments. 
Various government initiatives and programmes have 
pushed the momentum for growth in terms of category 
penetration, with the Jal Jeevan Mission playing a 
pivotal role in providing safe water access to over 120 
million rural households through tap connections since 
the scheme’s launch in 2019. Notably, the coverage of 
functional household piped water connections in rural 
areas has surged from a mere 17% to approximately 
70% as of October 2023.
This and other similar programmes have driven our 
business segments out of the low-growth categories 
bracket, as manifest in our long-term strategic 
approach and investments, which are designed to 
maintain our growth momentum. As a high gross 
margin, low capex and high ROCE business, Eureka 
Forbes is well-positioned to capitalise on the emerging 
opportunities across categories. 
THE FUTURE BECKONS
I am happy to state that we are more than ready to 
capture the growth prospects we see emerging across 
the categories of our presence at the back of our brand 
salience, omni-channel approach and growing digital 
presence, along with industry-first product innovations. 
Our strategy to drive growth is centred around pushing 
category penetration, increasing innovations, stepping 
up our growth investments, digitising the business, 
and extracting cost efficiencies. At the same time, we 
shall focus concertedly on driving service revenue and 
enriching the customer experience.
Our robust operating model, governance structure, 
effective risk management, and ethical practices 
represent a strong and sustainable platform for long-term 
stakeholder value creation, and we shall continue to 
strengthen it further as we intensify our focus on sustained 
and profitable growth. We believe that our strategic 
approach and planning truly empowers us to drive such 
growth in the future. Having stepped up our efforts to 
drive an all-encompassing organisational transformation, 
we are now set to create a bigger and better Eureka 
Forbes – more connected with India’s new-age consumers 
than ever before.
I am confident that, with your sustained trust and 
support, Eureka Forbes will continue to move decisively 
ahead to reclaim its historic glory and make a bigger 
difference to more lives.
Regards,
Arvind Uppal
Chairman
Various government initiatives and 
programmes have pushed the 
momentum for growth in terms of 
category penetration, with the Jal 
Jeevan Mission playing a pivotal role 
in providing safe water access to 
over 150 million+ rural households 
through tap connections since the 
scheme’s launch in 2019.
Chairman’s Message
of transformation, the tangible impact of our change 
initiatives on the ground are visible in the outcomes.  
Continuing businesses reported a higher growth 
at 12.0% YoY – up from 7.9% in FY24 and 6.1% 
in FY23. Notably, Q4 was the sixth successive 
quarter of double-digit growth for the Continuing 
business, underscoring the robustness of our 
transformation strategy. 
The growth was broad-based across product categories 
and backed by both volumes and innovation-led 
premiumisation. It was also fairly balanced across 
channels, giving us the confidence that we are on the 
right strategic path for the future.
This holistic growth also translated into enhanced 
profitability, as manifest in the Adjusted EBITDA margins, 
which rose from 6.3% in FY23 to 10.3% in FY24, and 
to 11.7% in FY25. In the same period, we reported 
continued improvement in our operating leverage, with 
Opex as % of revenue improving from 53% in FY23 to 
48.5% in FY24, and now to 46.6% in FY25.
STRUCTURAL LONG-TERM CAPABILITIES 
DRIVE “STEP UP” IN PERFORMANCE
An important dimension of the performance step up is 
that it has been underpinned by strategic interventions  
to build structural strengths for the long term. The 
investments made by the business over the last 2 years 
are leading to these outcomes. 
Significant efforts to boost our capabilities in innovation 
and continued investments in R&D to enhance our 
innovation competency lead to over 30 product launches 
in water, cleaning and air in FY25. Several innovations 
were industry-first products and tailored to the needs of 
different consumer segments. We also became the first 
company to launch a truly smart IoT water purifier. I can 
confidently say that your Company has reclaimed its 
mantle of being an innovator and a pioneer – the 2 key 
traits which have built this iconic brand. This has led to 
our product categories growing sustainably and robust 
mid-high teens throughout the year.
As part of our customer-centric focus, we also stepped 
up our efforts to boost our service experience. 
Our performance levels on TATs and customer NPS are 
at an all-time high. On the Service revenue side, I am 
pleased to share the revenue green shoots are very 
clearly visible.  
The institutionalisation of our cost programme has 
provided us a headroom for growth investments while 
also creating opportunities for margin expansion.  
Dear Shareholders,
I am happy to share with you our Integrated Annual 
Report for FY25 – a year marked by continued 
double-digit growth and lifetime high profitability. 
Stepping up our transformation efforts, we strengthened 
our initiatives to create sustainable, long-term value for 
the Company and the stakeholders.
MACRO ENVIRONMENT REMAINS VOLATILE
FY25 proved to be a challenging year for the global 
industry and the markets, as a tough macro-economic 
outlook and the US-triggered tariff environment continues 
to impact sentiment. The pressure catalysed by the 
geopolitical challenges continued to persist, and the 
mixed global signals on the economic front further 
depressed the market sentiment. While this impact has 
been felt in India as well, our macro indicators remain 
relatively healthy with a GDP growth of 6.5%.    
Between FY23 and FY30, India’s real GDP is expected 
to grow at a CAGR of 6.6%. It is also expected that the 
growth trajectory of the Indian economy will position 
India among the top 3 global economies by FY28. 
Key factors likely to contribute to the nation’s long-term 
economic growth include favourable demographics, 
reducing dependency ratio, rapidly rising education 
levels, steady urbanisation, growing young & working 
population, IT revolution, increasing penetration of 
mobile & internet infrastructure, government policies, 
increasing aspirations and affordability, among others.
FY25 PERFORMANCE – A RECAP
In the above challenging environment, Eureka Forbes 
reported a steep jump in all its performance parameters 
on the back of a successful FY24.
FY24 was the year when we changed the earlier 
trajectory of low growth and low profitability. Building on 
that, FY25 was a year of a very visible “Stepping Up” 
in your Company’s performance with impact visible 
on multiple fronts.  As we exited the second full year 
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
22
23
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
position that we enjoy in this category will allow us to 
harness a disproportionate share of the growth.
Stepping Up – Investments
 We are a company with a four-decade-old rich legacy 
and our role is to make it futureproof for the next several 
decades.  It is hence essential that we build structural 
capabilities that create sustainable and long-term value for 
our stakeholders. 
  
Over the last two years, we have consciously increased 
investments across diverse areas of the business – 
ranging from capital expenditure to R&D to growth spends. 
  
To strengthen our long-term capabilities, we increased 
Capex by 3-fold and will consistently invest more than 
` 50 crore. Innovation has been a key area of focus and 
consequently, we doubled our R&D strength and spends. 
We believe that this has been critical to us being able 
to reclaim our mantle of innovators and pioneers. I am 
pleased to report that we have a robust future-ready 
innovation pipeline in place. 
  
Similarly, our role as category creators requires us to be at 
the forefront of consumer communication and accordingly, 
we increased our A&SP spends by 25% in FY25. 
  
Business is always about balancing the short-term 
and the long-term and we intend to pursue the path 
going ahead as well.
Stepping Up – Innovation Muscle
Over the last two years, we have consciously dialled up 
our focus on innovation and new product development in 
all our categories.
The success of our innovations has been a key driver 
of our growth in the products business. Our new 
products in these categories have resonated well with 
the aspirations and expectations of new-age consumers 
seeking smart, effective, relevant and convenient solutions 
for their homes. 
The launch of India’s first true IoT-enabled smart purifier – 
Aquaguard Ritz Pro X, is an example of this.
In Vacuum Cleaners too, we launched a number of new 
products. One of our more successful innovations was the 
Forbes Smart Clean Auto Bin, a product that provides both 
dry vacuuming and wet mopping and which empties the 
dust automatically in a bin without the need for customer 
involvement for 45 days.
More broadly, as a result of our deliberate, strategic 
and agile approach to innovations, we have now begun 
launching a slew of industry-first innovations that exceed 
expectations and delight our customers.
Stepping Up – Customer Experience
One clear area of focus was on elevating our customer 
experience. Towards that, we took several initiatives 
through the year, both on the front customer-facing end 
and at the back end involving our service network.
In order to provide convenience and improve customer 
access, we strengthened our mobile App with a 
personalised and enhanced user interface. During FY25, 
80% complaints were booked digitally (vs 33% in 
May 2023), while the active app installed base stood at  
1.6 Mn+ (as against 140k in May 2023).
We rolled out and scaled up our new Service Technician 
App. This has several new features that are more intuitive 
and user-friendly and enable a much better quality of 
service for our customers, while enhancing operational 
efficiency for our technicians.
The success of these measures is evident in the fact that 
our customer metrics were at an all-time high in FY25. 
Our customer experience is set to improve even further as 
we expand and improve our infrastructure, embrace and 
scale more digital interventions and provide our customers 
with unmatched convenience and service.
Stepping Up – Service Revenue Growth
Early in our transformation, we had improved the 
affordability of our services by launching tiered AMCs and 
provided our customers with many choices. We continued 
on that journey in FY25. 
During the year, we stepped up our efforts in driving 
D2C service revenues by offering personalised 
recommendations for AMCs based on their profile and 
usage behaviour. We also mounted a conscious campaign 
at targeting the customer base who had lapsed from our 
AMCs in prior periods. As a result of this campaign, I am 
pleased to share that 64% AMCs in FY25 were booked 
digitally (vs 28% in May 2023), with a dominant share of 
these coming from erstwhile churned customers.
During the year, we scaled up our new design filters 
with QR codes which enables customers to authenticate 
and ensure that they are getting only genuine filters. 
We also mounted a new advertising campaign to increase 
customer awareness about our genuine service and 
filters that was extremely well received. In addition, we 
created and scaled a dedicated GTM for filters. All these 
efforts began to bear fruit and we saw clear green 
shoots in service revenues which will gain momentum in 
the periods ahead.
MD & CEO’s Message
Let us look at where all your Company has seen a Stepping 
Up in its performance.  
Stepping Up – Growth
FY25 was the year in which the business and both our 
categories inflected decisively and stepped up into a 
long-term, double-digit growth trajectory. 
Our initiatives have spanned several fronts, and the tangible 
outcomes of our transformation focus are clearly visible in the 
Company’s growth numbers of the past three years. 
Growth in continuing business has stepped up from 6.1% in 
FY23 and 7.9% in FY24 to 12.0% in FY25.
The growth has been led by our product portfolio which 
grew in high teens. The profile of our growth was balanced 
and healthy. We saw encouraging growth in all our 
categories and channels. Most importantly, the growth 
was driven both on increase in volumes - in line with our 
penetration focus - as also by an increase in average selling 
prices, on the back of our strategy of premiumisation.
Stepping Up – Penetration
All the categories that we operate in have very low 
penetration levels, much lower than in comparable 
neighbouring markets, and despite the near universal need 
of some of the categories. To illustrate, the penetration 
of Water Purifiers is only 6% and that of Vacuum 
Cleaners is only 2%. 
We therefore brought concerted effort in FY25 to drive 
category penetrations. We continued to invest behind the 
communication campaign on Aquaguard Sure which was 
aimed at creating awareness around the importance of 
Water Purifiers and the inadequacy of cloth filters. 
Towards the second half of FY25, we scaled up our portfolio 
of Water Purifiers offering an extended 2-year filter life. 
Long-life filters address a fundamental barrier to category 
adoption of the total cost of ownership, and we believe 
that our proactive, insights-based and category-building 
strategy will help in driving penetration and strong category 
growth in the periods ahead. Given that many Indians live in 
areas with severely poor water quality with contaminants like 
nitrates, arsenic, heavy metals etc. prevalent in their ground 
water, driving affordability of and access to Water Purifiers 
not only makes for sound business strategy but is also 
almost a moral and ethical imperative.
In Vacuum cleaners, we increased the investments and the 
focus on the segment of Convenient Cleaning, especially 
Robotics and we saw a very encouraging response to 
these initiatives. We believe that Robotics will emerge as 
key engine for growth for your company, and the leadership 
Dear Shareholders,
As we complete the second full year of transformation, 
I am happy to share with you our progress on this very 
exciting journey. 
In a relatively muted demand environment, FY25 was a 
year of Stepping Up of our performance and in which 
we delivered visible business impact across all key 
dimensions of our business. 
The transformation on which we had embarked two years 
ago has picked up momentum, driving a significant 
scale-up in growth and profitability, and translating into 
several notable on-ground achievements.
FY25 was a year in which we continued to drive category 
penetration and established our thought leadership 
on innovations. We also significantly strengthened our 
broader portfolio play. As a result, our Product business 
grew in high teens through the year.
In Service, we set new standards in Customer experience 
and our service revenues began showing clear green 
shoots on the back of our several transformation initiatives.
Disciplined control on costs and a focus on improving 
productivity ensured that there was also a significant 
improvement in our profitability. 
In summary, FY25 was all about strengthening the 
foundations of your company for long-term sustainable 
growth and profitability, and it has set us well for the future 
that will follow.
Growth in continuing business has 
stepped up from 6.1% in FY23 and 
7.9% in FY24 to 12.0% in FY25.
Our performance step-up was 
also visible in our profitability 
improvement during the year.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
24
25
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Stepping Up – Profitability
Our performance step-up was also visible in 
our profitability improvement during the year. 
Adjusted EBITDA expanded by 25.9% YoY and Adjusted 
EBITDA margins went up from 6.3% in FY23 and 10.3% in 
FY24 to 11.7% in FY25. 
The improvement in profitability came despite a very 
deliberate increase in our growth investments which went 
up by 25% YoY. 
Our improving operating leverage (with Opex at 46.6% 
of revenue v/s 53% in FY23 and 48.5% in FY24) is a key 
factor driving our enhanced profitability, and it will be our 
endeavour to optimise it further as the business grows.
The above improved profitability and operational 
efficiencies are evident in our improving cash position, 
with the Company exiting FY25 with a net surplus of ` 284 
crore as against the ` 31 crore debt just two years back. 
I am pleased to share that as of March 31, 2025, the RoCE 
was an impressive 353%, as our Free Cash Flow to Profit 
After Tax stood at 131%.
Our business model is fundamentally designed for a 
very high Return on Capital. The virtuous cycle of high 
gross margins, improving EBITDA margin and consistent 
negative working capital cycle, is enhancing our ability to 
invest in the business, thereby giving us the confidence of 
sustained growth and profitability going ahead. 
Stepping Up – Cultural Transformation
The successful Stepping up of our performance 
illustrates the power of what a determined and inspired 
team can accomplish when they work towards a shared 
and exciting goal.
As part of our transformation, we underlined a few 
culture codes that needed to be strengthened across 
the organisation. 
Keeping the Customer at the front and centre of 
everything we do is critical, and we drove a number 
of initiatives to drive this behaviour. Regular customer 
contacts and market visits along with the ensuring 
rewards and recognition for the right behaviours helped 
highlight the importance of this key cultural tenet.
It was also important for our people to bring a sense of 
ownership and joint accountability to the outcomes and 
the fact that every single manager across Eureka Forbes 
has stock options was one of the ways of enabling this. 
This shared mission and ownership also helped drive and 
enhance collaboration across the organisation.
Finally, we live in a world that is transforming at a 
never-before pace and it is therefore critical that we 
respond to these changes with agility and urgency. 
Towards that, we have strived to build a culture of 
innovation and experimentation, of trying multiple 
initiatives and pilots, of being unafraid of failures and 
drawing the right lessons therefrom. This agility and speed 
have reflected in the way we have been able to roll out 
multiple new initiatives in a record span of time - across 
new products, new service features, new digital solutions 
and new ways of working.
That said, we know that cultural transformation is 
and will always remain work in progress, and we will 
continue to drive the right behaviours and culture codes 
in times ahead.
Our people have been and will always remain our 
biggest source of our strength and the driving force of 
our transformation. We will continue to invest actively in 
promoting their welfare and well-being, and in augmenting 
their skills and capabilities to prepare them for the future.
Looking Ahead
The last two years have been about defining the vision for 
the new Eureka Forbes, putting together our new strategy 
and building the right enabling capabilities. Having now 
strengthened the foundations of the company, we are 
extremely excited at what lies ahead. 
We operate in categories with very low penetrations 
but with near universal need and relevance, and we 
will double down on our efforts in driving affordability, 
relevance and access to our categories.
Innovation will remain one of the prime levers of our future 
growth strategy, and we shall continue to develop new 
products that resonate deeply with the changing desires 
and aspirations of the consumers. AI and digitisation will 
play a vital role in this journey, and we shall accelerate our 
digital transformation to match the pace of the external 
transformation.
We believe that sustained investments in innovations 
and product growth, improving the customer experience 
and growing our service revenue, and in more impactful 
market execution will be the key enablers of our 
future success.
The energy, enthusiasm, dynamism and capabilities of 
our teams that are palpable across the organisation will 
serve as the stepping stone for the next phase of our 
transformational trajectory. 
I believe that these - together with the trust of our 
customers and support of our partners, investors and 
shareholders – will propel Eureka Forbes into the next, 
bigger phase of growth and profitability.
We are absolutely and unambiguously optimistic about 
the future, and fully geared to take Eureka Forbes to even 
greater heights and cross new frontiers of growth and 
profitability in the years ahead. 
So come, join us as we step on the transformation 
accelerator to step up our growth journey and seize the 
future - more forcefully than ever before!
Carpe Diem!
Regards,
Pratik Pota
Managing Director & CEO
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
26
27
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Creating Value Across Six Capitals
Inputs
Financial Capital
	 Equity Paid Capital: ` 193 crore
	 Capex: ` 55 crore
Manufactured Capital
	 Manufacturing Units: 2 
	 Warehouses: 23
Human Capital
	 Employees: 2,721
	 Training Hours: 55,000
	 100% Managers with ESOPs
Social and Relationship Capital
	 Long-term Partnerships with NGOs 
	 Tripled our CSR Spend: +264%
Processes
Product Manufacturing
Supply Chain
Consumer Insight
After-sales Service
Procurement
Research and Innovation
Sales and Marketing
Natural Capital
	 ISO 14001 EMS Certificate
	 100% Water Recycling
Outcomes
Financial Capital
	 Revenue: ` 2,436 crore; Growth of 12%*
	 17.0% Product Revenue Growth
	 Adj. EBITDA: ` 285 crore at 11.7%
Manufactured Capital
	 Zero Fatalities at Manufacturing Sites
	 Reduced Cost of Production
	 Green Gold Certificate
Human Capital
	 99% Safety Training Coverage in Manufacturing Units
	 Highly Motivated Employees
Social and Relationship Capital
	 12 Schools Benefited
	 4,500 Students Benefited 
	 6.3x Increase in Institutional Shareholders 
Natural Capital
	 Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) at Both Factories
Intellectual Capital
	 30+ New Products Launched
Intellectual Capital
	 Higher R&D Spending
	 Digitisation Investments
* Continuing Business
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
28
29
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Focussing on Sustainable Value 
Creation
Our comprehensive and holistic value creation strategy 
is rooted in operational excellence, which we continue 
to boost through our strategic initiatives. Our efforts are 
focussed on strengthening our financial performance, 
which saw a major step-up in FY25, with margins 
expanding despite a 25% YoY increase in growth 
investments. The momentum of continued double-digit 
growth and the lifetime high margins we reported in the 
last quarter of FY25 give us the confidence and the energy 
to drive sustained profitable growth in the year ahead.
As of March 31, 2025, the Company remains net surplus 
and generated sufficient cash flows from its operations 
as a result of consistent growth in operating revenue 
and cost optimisation initiatives. This has resulted in a 
robust and liquid balance sheet, reflecting the Company’s 
sound financial position. These funds are consistently 
reinvested into the business to support ongoing growth 
and development.
Led by our transformational strategy, we remain firmly 
on the path of realising our growth target in the next few 
years, which will further strengthen our market leadership 
position. Category expansion is a key lever of this 
approach, and we continue to make targeted investments 
to deliver enhanced growth, value and returns. 
3rd CARE credit rating  
upgrade in 2 years
AA– (Stable)
CARE & CRISIL
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
Focussing on Sustained 
Value Creation
Eureka Forbes’ robust financial foundations are a key pillar of its long-term 
profitable growth strategy. Our strategic approach is aligned towards strengthening 
these foundations, and is driven by our efforts to ensure optimal funds allocation 
and utilisation. Our focus on long-term growth and value creation is steered by 
our judicious investments in our Financial Capital. As we continue to step up our 
investments in both revenue growth and profitability, sustained double-digit growth 
along with YoY margin expansion underlines the robustness of our financial strategy. 
It demonstrates the tangible, on-ground impact of our transformation efforts. 
>350%
Return on Capital  
Employed (ROCE)*
>100%
Cash Conversion
12%
Revenue growth 
in continuing 
business
~10x
PAT increase  
over 2 years
Improvement in Adj.  
EBITDA margin 
in 2 years
540 bps
*ROCE = EBIT / Capital employed,  EBIT = EBITDA - Depreciation & Amortisation + Other Income  
 Capital employed = Tangible Net Worth + Total Debt + Deferred Tax Liabilities
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
30
31
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Eureka Forbes Limited
Reinforcing our Business Model
Our business model is designed to deliver the benefits of operating leverage to the Company. It is equipped to generate 
strong cash flows, translating into sustainable financial growth for the future. The model is structured around our diverse 
product and channel mix, robust service revenue stream, healthy gross margins, and low capex intensity, and we remain 
focussed on strengthening these growth enablers.
Enhancing Capital Efficiency
FY25 was a year of further strengthening the capital efficiency at Eureka Forbes. Our structural business model 
advantages steered robust cash generation and high ROCE. The core structural advantages that led to this 
step-up in capital efficiency included:
CASH 
GENERATION 
AHEAD OF 
PROFITS
LOW CAPEX 
BUSINESS  
(~₹50-60 Cr 
ANNUALLY)
NEGATIVE 
WORKING 
CAPITAL 
BUSINESS
ROCE 
>350%
1
2
3
4
Key Drivers of our Efficiencies
The operational and cost efficiencies at Eureka Forbes are driven by a series of enablers, which equip 
us to continually reinforce our business model. They empower us with multiple margin expansion 
drivers while we focus on enhancing our growth investments.
	 Our diversified Portfolio spread across 
various price points and also between 
product and service businesses, 
constitutes the foundation for 
healthy gross margins.
	 Shared Services and Process 
Automation equip us to streamline 
operations, making them 
more efficient.
	 Scale and standardisation 
are the catalysts of Product 
Value Engineering and Vendor 
Price Negotiations.
	 People, Logistics and IT Cost lend 
us the opportunity to boost operating 
leverage with scale.
Low Capex, High ROCE  
& FCF Conversion
Capex of ` 50-60 crore annually, 
ROCE > 350%, FCF to PAT of 131%
Operating Efficiency
640 bps Improvement in  
Opex in Last 2 Years
Healthy Gross Margin
Range Bound Between 58% - 60%
Annuity-Based  
Service Model
Consistent Revenue Stream 
with Upfront Cash
Straddling All Channels  
and Price Points
Balanced Revenue Profile
Healthy Revenue Mix
Product Service Split of 2:1
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
32
33
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
(` in Crore)
163
FY25
92
FY24
17
FY23
PAT
Driving Efficiency Through Digitisation
Digitisation of financial operations is an important driver for improving accuracy, 
efficiency, transparency, and compliance. 
  Adjusted EBITDA (%)
(` in Crore)
Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA %
11.7%
6.3%
10.3%
285
FY25
226
FY24
132
FY23
64%
of AMC Booked Digitally
~100%
Digital Collection
(%)
Revenue Growth
FY25
12.0%
7.9%
FY24
6.1%
FY23
(`)
8.40
FY25
4.73
FY24
FY23
Basic EPS
0.88
284
122
FY25
FY24
FY23
(` in Crore)
Net Surplus
-31
(%)
ROCE
>350% 
ROCE
NEGATIVE  
WORKING CAPITAL
Growth for Continuing Business
ROCE = EBIT / Capital employed,  EBIT = EBITDA - Depreciation & Amortisation + Other Income  
Capital employed = Tangible Net Worth + Total Debt + Deferred Tax Liabilities
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
34
35
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
30+
New Products 
Launched
Several Industry 
First Innovations
6
New Technologies  
Introduced
Key R&D Initiatives  
in FY25
Strategic Investments
	 Strengthened R&D and 
Digital teams to accelerate 
the development of Smart 
Devices with IoT integration and 
advanced features
	 Mould developments for new 
range of products and building 
Smart Technology
	 New platform for Automated 
Water Softeners to build 
category adjacencies
Product Enhancements
	 Rolled out new range of high 
efficiency water purifiers 
with water saver technology, 
to significantly reduce 
the water wastage during 
purification process
	 New Water Saver Auto-Flush 
feature for commercial water 
purification systems for 
improved water recovery
	 Introduced upgraded Cordless 
Upright Vacuum Cleaner, 
combining portability with best-in-
class suction power
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
Strengthening Innovation 
and Marketing Capabilities
Intellectual capital forms the cornerstone of our long-term growth and success. It not only 
drives value creation for our stakeholders but also empowers us to remain at the forefront of 
a rapidly evolving market and consumer landscape.
We continue to make investments in bolstering our Intellectual Capital, particularly R&D, 
Product Innovation, Digital Transformation, and Consumer Insights, to respond to the 
dynamic consumer aspirations and maintain our competitive edge. These efforts also fortify 
our brand positioning and product development capabilities, enabling us to create impactful 
consumer-centric solutions.
2x 
R&D Annual  
Spends 
Scaled up
Platform and Technology 
Development
	 Introduced eco-friendly, advanced 
disinfection technology with 
mercury-free UV LED modules
	 Integrated Heavy Metal Remover 
Cartridge with UV Water Purifiers 
to provide wholistic purification 
solution in UV markets
	 New product designs to 
build pipeline of features & 
technologies for enhanced 
product performance and 
consumer convenience
 Smart Home Appliances
	 Introduced IoT-enabled Smart 
Water Purifiers, with enhanced 
user controls and connectivity
	 Launched the Smart Clean Auto 
Bin Robotics Vacuum Cleaner, 
featuring Hands-free dust disposal 
technology, elevating hygiene & 
user convenience
	 Added Smart Air Purifiers to the 
portfolio with auto mode, enabling 
automatic adjustment to the 
clean air delivery based on the 
level of pollutants
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
36
37
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Eureka Forbes Limited
1-2-3 Robotic Vacuum Cleaner Campaign
Vacuum cleaners have a very low penetration in India (<2%), but the Company has always focussed on 
category building, resulting in a dominant market share. With innovations like the robotic vacuum cleaner, 
consumers can enjoy deep cleaning at the touch of a button. The “Cleaning as easy as 1-2-3” campaign 
highlights this simplicity and targets first-time users of the category. Launched across digital and print media, 
this campaign generated awareness and supported the expansion of the robotic vacuum cleaner portfolio.
Change to the New Aquaguard Campaign
During the year, we introduced a range of cutting-edge products in the premium EWP (Electric Water Purifier) 
category, reinforcing our commitment to innovation and customer-centric design..
To celebrate the new product launch, we launched a dynamic campaign showcasing the transformation of 
Aquaguard. With the tagline “CHANGE TO THE NEW AQUAGUARD”, the campaign highlights Aquaguard’s 
innovation, offering both advanced purification and modern designs. It encourages consumers to evolve with the 
times. The multimedia campaign ran across TV, digital, radio, social media, and print.
One of the creatives focusses on a pivotal moment for many families – the arrival of a newborn. During this 
life-changing event, the need for a reliable water purifier becomes even more crucial. Emphasising the safety of a 
stainless steel tank, it reassures new parents that Aquaguard is dedicated to safeguarding their family’s health. 
Another creative focusses on convenience of a Hot & Ambient water purifier, while having the assurance of purity 
from Aquaguard.
The campaign has had a significant impact on 
brand awareness and consumer preference. 
Top-of-mind awareness has reached 62%, 
while consumer preference for Aquaguard has 
improved by 600 basis points, with 68% of users 
now considering Aquaguard as their first choice.
The “Cleaning as Easy as 1-2-3” campaign 
promoted the Robotic vacuum cleaner for its 
ease of use in handling wet, dry, and solid 
messes. It highlighted the product’s ability 
to simplify cleaning tasks with a simple, 
three-step process.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
38
39
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Social Influencer Programme
This year, we launched a targeted social media influencer programme to boost awareness and engagement across 
Instagram and YouTube. We partnered with 10 influencers from both Mega and Macro categories, creating content 
across Reels, Shorts, and Stories, covering a wide range of genres, including Lifestyle, Parenting, Interior Design, 
Tech, and Couple creators.
The programme achieved remarkable results, delivering 34.27 million views, surpassing 
our target of 4.65 million views, and generated over 5,00,000 engagements. 
This initiative leveraged the power of digital influencers to enhance visibility, educate consumers, and 
drive engagement among both new and returning buyers. Influencers from lifestyle, parenting, and 
wellness categories promoted flagship offerings such as the Hot & Ambient water purifier and Stainless 
Steel tank range, amplifying consumer trust and brand credibility.
Smart Clean with Auto Bin
A robotic vacuum cleaner which takes 
convenience to the next level by 
automatically emptying the dust collected 
into a bin, ensuring no need to handle 
dust for up to 65 days.
Blaze Insta
A first-of-its-kind water purifier offering 
a temperature proposition, Blaze 
Insta is the only purifier capable of 
delivering 80-degree hot water at the 
press of a button.
Glass Series
This series is uniquely designed to 
complement ultra-modern kitchens.
Smart Clean with Home Mapping 
Designed for Indian homes, it cleans tiles, 
wood, marble, and carpets with ease. 
Smart app control and 5-hour runtime ensure 
effortless, uninterrupted cleaning.
Designo NXT
This unique under-the-counter water 
purifier boasts several industry-first 
features, including a large storage tank 
with continuous flow rate and wheels 
at the back and a front handle for easy 
manoeuvrability.
Stainless Steel Tank Range
Expanding our product range  
with hygienic, durable 
stainless steel tanks.
Tanvi Thakker and 
Adittya Kapadia 
Karishma Tanna
Ishita Dutta Sheth
Rachel Maaney
itsallaboutaclick 
(Ishan Khatter)
Debina Bonnerjee 
Portfolio Highlights
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
40
41
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Launch of Aquaguard with 2-Year 
Filter Life
We launched a new range of Aquaguard Water Purifiers 
featuring Nanopore Long-Life Filters. These filters provide 
2 years of protection against harmful pollutants like 
pesticides, microplastics, lead, mercury, arsenic, and 
microbial contaminants. This breakthrough innovation 
eliminates the need for annual filter changes, offering 
consumers significant cost savings.
Aquaguard Genuine Filter
To ensure authenticity and safeguard consumers from 
counterfeit filters, Aquaguard filters were upgraded 
to a unique grey colour. This distinctive design helps 
consumers differentiate authentic Aquaguard filters. 
Each filter features a QR code for easy verification of 
authenticity. We also conducted a comprehensive print 
and TV campaign to raise awareness and drive adoption, 
reaching millions of households in key markets.
Technology & Consumer-Centric 
Innovations in FY25
Smart Water Purifiers
	 Provides real-time display of TDS (Total Dissolved 
Solids) levels for better user awareness on water quality 
	 Filter Life monitoring for smart tracking & alerts via the 
mobile app for timely filter replacement
	 Daily hydration tracking with past trends, encouraging 
better health awareness and water consumption
	 Device Health Check, enabling consumer 
awareness, proactive servicing and troubleshooting 
via app diagnosis.
	 Powered by new Electronics architecture with smart 
features & remote diagnostics 
Robotics Vacuum Cleaners
	 Introduced Rapid Room Mapping technology with 
5-minute quick mapping function, for faster and more 
efficient cleaning cycles.
Upright Vacuum Cleaners
	 Upgraded with Cyclonic Dust Separation technology 
with high suction efficiency with efficient cost 
management for wider market penetration
We are excited to onboard Shraddha Kapoor as the 
brand ambassador for Eureka Forbes Vacuum Cleaners. 
Her popularity, mindful lifestyle, and strong connection 
with the youth align with our mission to build a cleaner and 
healthier India.
Other Digital Initiatives
1.	
During the year, we revamped our customer app 
with a completely redesigned UI/UX, enhancing 
the self-service experience for our users. We have 
continued to introduce new features, growing 
our active app installed base to over 1.6 million+ 
customers. We have also expanded our website 
commerce by more than 4X owing to our customised 
offerings such as exchanges, bank offers, and 
coupons for our loyal customers.
2. 	
We relaunched our WhatsApp bot and IVR, 
offering an enhanced self-service experience. 
These channels have been widely adopted, with 
over 80% of customer interactions now happening 
through these self-serve platforms.
Relaunch of Field Technician App
We relaunched the Field Technician App for our 8,000+ 
technicians, featuring a new, intuitive UI/UX. It allows 
technicians to easily onboard, navigate their tasks 
with location guidance, and seamlessly sell AMCs 
and devices to customers. These enhancements have 
streamlined operations and improved governance at EFL.
Filter Innovation: Nanopore Long Life Filters
Our expertise in water science and deep understanding of Indian water 
conditions have been at the core of our product innovations. We endeavour to 
enhance water purifier penetration across India, safeguarding the health and 
safety of every household.
One of the key challenges to category expansion has been the high cost of 
changing filters annually. To address this, we have introduced our breakthrough 
Nanopore Long Life Filters, offering ‘Long Life Filters with Lifelong Protection’. 
Unlike other brands, we have maintained the highest safety standards while 
extending the filter life. 
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
42
43
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
 
2
Manufacturing  
Facilities
20%
Productivity 
Improvement
Benchmarked to Highest Safety Standards
Our state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities, located strategically in 
Bengaluru (Karnataka) and Dehradun (Uttarakhand), are certified to the 
highest safety benchmarks, demonstrating their powerful excellence 
edge. Both the facilities received the ISO 45001:2018 certification during 
FY25, endorsing our efforts to continually boost our production safety 
and quality focus.
Our facilities are certified to several standards, including ISO 14001:2015 
(Environmental Management System), ISO 9001:2015 (Quality 
Management System), and ISO 45001:2018 (Occupational Health and 
Safety Management System). Additionally, we hold BIS certifications under 
IS 14724:1999 and IS 16240:2023.
Our commitment to excellence is further reflected in being awarded the 
prestigious GC Mark Certification. Moreover, the Dehradun plant is an 
active member of the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) Certificate.
Focussed on Quality Process Optimisation
Quality process optimisation plays a pivotal role in driving Eureka Forbes’ 
commitment to excellence and customer satisfaction. As a leading 
player in water purifiers, vacuum cleaners and air purifiers, the Company 
emphasises strongly on continuous refinement of its quality processes. 
This focus ensures high product reliability, enhanced operational efficiency, 
and sustained market leadership. Robust quality control systems, lean 
methodologies, and continuous improvement initiatives enable us to not 
only meet but exceed customer expectations, reinforcing our reputation for 
innovation and trust
Green / Sustainable Manufacturing
As part of our continued commitment to sustainability and environmental 
stewardship, Eureka Forbes Limited (EFL) has initiated the transition 
to eco-friendly honeycomb packaging for its water purifiers, replacing 
conventional thermocol-based materials. In the initial phase, we have 
implemented this sustainable packaging across 5% of our product 
portfolio, with a clear roadmap to expand coverage in the coming years. 
This shift represents a significant step toward reducing our environmental 
footprint through innovative and greener alternatives.
Boosting Manufacturing Capacity & Capability
During FY25, Eureka Forbes launched several initiatives to enhance 
its manufacturing capacity, capability and efficiency. Among the key 
interventions were:
These initiatives are designed to help scale manufacturing excellence 
across our product lines, going forward.
Flexible & Quick  
Changeovers
Installing energy-free spiral 
gravity conveyors
Data loggers for real-time 
membrane test data
Upgrading Processes for 
Enhanced Productivity
Increasing uptime with 
optimising roll sizes
Installing L-sealer  
machines
Zero Liquid 
Discharge 
at both Manufacturing 
facilities
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
Driving  
Process Excellence
For us, at EFL, quality excellence is not a mere goal but an overarching ethos that 
drives all our systems and processes. We deploy rigorous manufacturing systems 
and methods at our state-of-the-art facilities to ensure stringent compliance with 
the highest Indian and global quality standards. Our investments in automation and 
digitisation steer the seamless optimisation of processes across our production value 
chain. Enhanced safety and operational efficiency equip us to craft products designed 
to enrich customer experience and satisfaction, while strengthening the market 
competitiveness of our brands.
India’s largest 
Manufacturing 
Set-up
for Water Purifiers
Zero
LTIFR* reported
*Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
44
45
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Eureka Forbes Limited
Quality Assurance for 
Enhancing Product 
Quality
We are deeply committed to creating 
best-in-class products to meet the 
evolving consumer preferences. 
In line with this commitment, we 
undertook a series of measures in 
FY25 to boost quality control and 
enhance product quality.
	 Standard Operating Procedures 
(SOPs): Documented instructions 
ensure consistent production and 
quality standards.
	 Incoming Material 
Inspection: Raw materials and 
components are tested and 
validated before use.
	 In-Process Inspection: 
Continuous monitoring is 
undertaken during production for 
early detection of defects.
	 Final Product Testing: 
Comprehensive testing of 
finished goods against quality 
criteria is ensured.
	 Statistical Process Control 
(SPC): Statistical methods are 
used to monitor and control 
production processes.
	 Calibration of Equipment: 
Regular calibration of tools 
and machines ensures 
accurate measurements.
	 Employee Training: Ongoing 
training on quality standards 
and procedures is an essential 
component of quality control.
	 Use of Quality Management 
Systems (QMS): Implementation 
of systems such as ISO 
9001 helps standardise 
quality practices.
	 Audit and Review: Internal and 
external audits are carried out to 
ensure compliance and identify 
improvement areas.
	 Defect Tracking and  
Root Cause Analysis: Systematic 
investigation and correction of 
product failures or defects is 
an essential part of the quality 
control process.
Automating Sourcing 
Excellence
We are digitising our sourcing 
process through automated POs, 
online vendor onboarding, and capex 
approvals via True Copy. MRP runs are 
shared with our supplier partners to 
enhance efficiency.
At the NPD stage, a ‘make vs buy’ 
analysis helps determine whether 
manufacturing and assembly 
should be in-house or outsourced. 
Assemblies and sub-assemblies are 
evaluated based on requirements, 
process complexity, and sequencing. 
(e.g., 2x2 projects).
We also leverage innovation and 
technology to build prototypes, 
conduct stage-gate reviews, and 
develop golden samples before 
mass production, enabling smooth 
product launches and efficient 
series production.
Scaling Sustainable 
Manufacturing
Eureka Forbes continues to invest 
proactively in building on its 
sustainable production ecosystem. 
As a responsible organisation, 
we initiated a series of initiatives 
in FY25 to scale our sustainable 
manufacturing proposition.
Elimination of Transparent Stickers
Removed transparent stickers 
from products to reduce 
non-recyclable waste.
Water-Saving Innovation
Implemented advanced membrane 
auto-flushing systems in institutional 
RO units, resulting in up to 60% 
water savings compared to 
conventional designs.
Sustainable Packaging
Other sustainable packaging 
projects include reducing plastic 
usage through weight and 
thickness optimisation, transitioning 
from coloured to brown cartons, 
and replacing multipage coloured 
user manuals with Z- Card and 
Digital User Manual.
We continue to engage with the 
Extended Producer Responsibility 
(EPR) framework ensuring 
responsible management of plastic, 
electronic and battery waste in line 
with environmental regulations and 
best practices.
Augmenting Safety at 
Facilities
As a people-centric organisation, 
we prioritise safety at our 
workplace, and implemented 
various safety training programmes 
during FY25. These included: 
Machine Safety, Fire Safety, 
Behaviour Based Safety, Work at 
Height, Emergency Evacuation 
Plan, etc. We also conducted 
internal safety audits at both 
the manufacturing facilities 
during the year.
Key features of our quality process optimisation journey
Customer-Centric 
Quality Focus
Lean and Six Sigma 
Methodologies
End-to-End Process 
Automation
	 Ensures that every stage of the 
product lifecycle — from design 
and manufacturing to after-sales 
service — meets stringent 
quality standards
	 Emphasises customer feedback 
integration to continuously 
refine product quality and 
service experience
	 Implements Lean principles 
to eliminate waste, reduce 
process variability, and 
streamline workflows
	 Utilises Six Sigma tools to 
analyse defects and drive 
process improvements, ensuring 
higher product consistency 
and fewer errors
	 Invests in automating critical 
quality check and data collection 
through traceability and 
serialisation project to enhance 
accuracy, reduce human error, 
and speed up decision-making
	 Quality management systems 
(QMS) enable monitoring 
of quality metrics across 
manufacturing processes
01
02
03
Cross-Functional 
Collaboration
Supplier Quality 
Management
Continuous 
Improvement Culture
	 Engages R&D, manufacturing, 
supply chain, and customer 
service teams in quality 
optimisation initiatives
	 Encourages knowledge-sharing 
and joint problem-solving 
to address quality 
challenges holistically
	 Works closely with suppliers to 
enforce strict quality standards 
and auditing processes
	 Collaborates on continual 
improvement initiatives to ensure 
raw materials and components 
meet defined specifications
	 Fosters a culture of continuous 
improvement through Kaizen, 
encouraging employees at all 
levels to suggest and implement 
quality enhancements
	 Regular training and upskilling 
programmes ensure teams are 
equipped with the latest quality 
management best practices
04
05
06
These initiatives have had a strong positive impact on the organisation’s performance in terms of enhanced customer 
satisfaction, operational efficiency, market competitiveness and compliance & risk management. Improved product 
reliability and after-sales support have led to higher customer trust and loyalty. Streamlined processes are reducing 
production costs, waste and turnaround times. 
The Company’s reputation as a trusted brand has received a major boost as a result of the superior quality standards 
maintained across its operations. This, in turn, is helping maintain and grow market share. Adherence to international 
quality standards is also helping to minimise risks and ensure compliance with regulatory requirements.
In parallel, we remain actively engaged with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) framework, ensuring the 
responsible collection, recycling, and disposal of plastic, electronic, and battery waste in full compliance with applicable 
environmental regulations and industry best practices.
Other sustainable packaging projects included reducing plastic usage through weight and thickness optimisation, 
transitioning from coloured to brown cartons, and replacing multipage coloured user manuals with Z-card and Digital 
User Manual. These initiatives collectively reflect our drive to reduce environmental impact across the product lifecycle 
while maintaining packaging integrity and customer experience.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
46
47
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
55,000+
Total training hours
84%
participation rate 
in Voice of EFL
Employee Engagement
Our state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities, located strategically in Bengaluru 
We firmly believe that communication is the key to our transformation. 
Our annual SMART Conferences bring employees together to celebrate 
achievements and co-create the business agenda for the coming year. 
Complementing this, quarterly townhalls led by the Executive Committee 
(ExCom) reflect on the quarter’s wins & improvement areas, recognise 
employee contributions, and align with coming quarters business priorities.
Our bi-annual leadership meeting foster collaborative leadership, driving 
alignment and shaping a unified, one-team approach. In January 2025, the 
entire TLT (Transformation Leadership Team) met to deliberate on aspects 
like the Must-Win-Battles for the coming year, key projects and aspects like 
cross-functional collaboration that will unlock  exponential growth opportunities.
Employee Listening Framework
Launched in September 2023, the Voice of EFL survey serves as a key tool 
to actively seek employee feedback and drive organisational improvements. 
The second edition in May 2024 saw an impressive 85% participation rate, 
with an overall high engagement score and best-in-class NPS. Based on the 
feedback, significant improvements were made in engagement initiatives, 
infrastructure, policies and the rewards and recognition process; all of which 
were communicated back to employees acknowledging their feedback and 
sharing actions.
Shaabash Awards
Our recognition and rewards (R&R) framework is built around quarterly 
Shaabash Awards and the MD Achievers Club. The Shaabash Awards 
celebrate exceptional contributions across four categories – Growth Enablers, 
Profitability Champions, Innovators, and Customer Champions, and are 
presented quarterly and annually. Over the past year, 33% of employees were 
recognised across the quarters and yearly award. 
Other employee engagement activities include sports tournaments like the 
Eureka Premier League (EPL), along with team outings, festival celebrations 
(Holi, Diwali, Christmas), and wellness activities (yoga camps, health 
check-ups, blood donation drives). 
2,721
Total Number  
of Employees
HUMAN CAPITAL
Nurturing A  
Thriving Workforce 
Our employees are the backbone of our organisation, driving continued growth and 
success. We aim to build an ecosystem that fosters clear alignment, ownership, 
and employee connection, with a sharp focus on attracting and empowering the 
best-in-class talent. 
This is achieved through meaningful initiatives that promote frequent, transparent 
communication, bring employees together to create a sense of belonging, upgrade 
their capabilities, and recognise behaviours and results that align with our vision.
100%
Managers with ESOPs
Owners’ Mindset - 
Name of training 
Coverage %
Prevention of Sexual Harassment (PoSH)
Code of Ethical Conduct (CoEC)
99.4%
99.2%
8.8
Score in Voice of EFL
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
48
49
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Eureka Forbes Limited
8,000+
Technicians Covered
Functional and Behavioural 
Skill-Building Initiatives
We also rolled out functional 
and behavioural skill-building 
interventions as under:
Service Teams
Over 290 employees in our 
regional service leadership teams 
underwent training to improve the 
management of business partners, 
service technicians, and customer 
relationship officers. 
Direct Sales Teams
More than 190 employees in our 
Direct Sales regional teams were 
trained in hiring, onboarding, 
engaging, and retaining 
business partners.
skills to help them stay competitive in 
the evolving business landscape.
In January 2024, we launched 
the Eureka Forbes Academy for 
all frontline teams to encourage 
continuous learning. The content 
is organised into pre-designed 
learning journeys tailored to 
specific roles. We offer a variety 
of learning formats, including 
e-learning courses, videos, PDFs, 
and URLs, providing flexibility for 
employees to learn at their own pace. 
Further, weekly channel-specific 
bite-size modules are assigned to all 
frontline employees.
Service Technician Training
In addition to our leadership 
development initiatives, we also 
upskilled our service technicians, 
who play a critical role in driving 
customer satisfaction. During the 
year, more than 8,000 technicians 
underwent induction, refresher 
training, and field visits, enabling 
them to enhance their functional and 
behavioural skills.
Learning Management 
System (LMS): The 
Eureka School of Learning 
(ESL) and Eureka Forbes 
Academy
To complement in-person training, 
we introduced the Learning 
Management System (LMS) in 
FY25, called “The Eureka School 
of Learning” (ESL). This platform 
empowers employees by giving  
them access to self-paced  
learning opportunities, focussing 
on both behavioural and functional 
competencies. In FY25, we 
expanded the LMS platform, 
achieving a 55% learner adoption 
rate. Employees actively engaged 
with courses to build future-ready 
Promoting a High-Performance Culture 
We have significantly strengthened our leadership culture to meet the growing needs of our business. We partnered with 
Mercer, a global consulting leader, to launch a 360-degree feedback survey for the ExCom during the year. This feedback 
focussed on six global leadership competencies, enabling us to design targeted development programmes. We are also 
rolling out the programme to the next levels of leadership, ensuring we build awareness in teams about their impact.
Our Performance Management process ensures that every employee’s performance is measured against clearly defined 
goals, which are reviewed periodically, allowing us to provide disproportionate rewards for disproportionate contributions.
Employee Stock Option Plan 
(ESOP)
Launched in 2022, our Employee 
Stock Option Plan (ESOP) fosters a 
deeper sense of ownership among 
employees, empowering them to 
become trusted partners in the 
company’s long-term success. 
The plan is extended to all managerial 
grades, making it inclusive and 
aligning individual aspirations with the 
company’s growth ambitions.
Frontline Incentive 
Programme
Our Frontline Incentive Programme 
links performance directly with 
compensation, motivating employees 
to deliver exceptional results. 
This programme is structured on both 
a monthly and quarterly basis and 
drives continuous engagement and 
recognises top performers through 
prestigious clubs such as the MD 
Achievers Club and the High Flier 
Club, with international trips and 
high value awards.
Skill Development and Upgradation 
Our people are the cornerstone of our ability to create long-term value for all stakeholders. We continue to invest in 
developing a high-performing workforce that thrives in a performance-driven culture. We have a large inhouse training 
team that trains all our frontline Eurochamps across channels both in our new launches & to turnaround performance. 
Our training initiatives are designed to build capabilities, sharpen key behaviours, and align employees with the 
company’s strategic goals.
People Management 
Excellence Programmes
We launched a three-tiered people 
management excellence programme 
framework, consisting of Managerial 
Excellence (ME), Driving Excellence 
(DE), and Team Excellence (TE). 
These programmes are tailored to 
different organisational levels to 
address specific leadership needs:
Managerial Excellence (ME) 
and Driving Excellence (DE)
Aimed at mid to senior regional 
and functional leaders, 
boosting situational leadership, 
change management, 
emotional intelligence, 
data-driven decision-making, 
and comprehensive 
business simulations.
Team Excellence (TE)
Targets junior to mid-level 
managers, focussing on emotional 
intelligence, collaboration, influence, 
trust-building, and execution skills.
250+
Employees participated
Communication Forums  
for Employees
We continue to strengthen employee 
engagement by promoting open 
and transparent communication. 
Our annual SMART conference is 
conducted across all regions and 
have all our employees-frontline 
and managerial travel across 
locations for this annual event. 
In addition to quarterly townhalls, 
our employees benefit from 
regional and departmental meets, 
where leadership connects with 
the workforce. 
36.7 years
Average age of  
employees
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
50
51
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Campus Programme: 
Shaping the Future 
Leaders
During the year, we launched 
the Campus Programme, aimed 
at building a strong pipeline of 
passionate, future-ready leaders 
equipped with the skills, agility, 
and vision to drive transformation. 
We visited premier campuses 
for summer placements, hiring 
interns across key functions like 
Digital, Marketing, Sales, HR, and 
Supply Chain. Additionally, we 
onboarded Management Trainees 
across the Marketing, Sales, and 
Digital functions. 
Performance-Oriented 
Remuneration 
All managerial-grade employees 
are part of our Performance-Linked 
Incentive (PLI) scheme, which links 
individual and company performance 
to growth and profitability goals. 
This programme is designed to 
encourage employees to boost 
their performance while aligning 
with the organisation’s objectives. 
By directly linking performance 
to rewards, the PLI scheme not 
only recognises consistent high 
performers but also plays a critical 
role in advancing our journey to build 
a performance-driven culture. 
Health & Safety 
We strive to ensure the highest 
standards of health and safety 
across our workplace and facilities. 
Our safety training and compliance 
policy is in line with industry best 
practices. Most of our safety training 
is delivered through on-the-job 
sessions, with regular periodic 
refresher courses, ensuring that 
our employees are updated 
with the latest safety protocols. 
These trainings encompass all 
our manufacturing units, covering 
all employees (including both 
permanent and contractual workers). 
Key topics covered are First Aid 
Training, Fire Fighting Training, ESG, 
and similar subjects.
Our commitment to safety has 
been recognised by industry 
leaders. We were honoured with 
the Safety Award in the “Large 
Enterprises Electrical Consumer 
Durable Sector” by the Global 
Safety Summit (GSS) in Uttarakhand. 
Additionally, we received the “Safety 
Excellence of the Year” Award for 
the Manufacturing Sector from UPES 
University, Dehradun.
99%
Safety Training Coverage  
in Manufacturing Units
Ensuring Ethical 
Conduct 
We remain committed to fostering 
a culture rooted in ethics, integrity, 
and accountability. Our governance 
philosophy extends beyond mere 
compliance; it empowers employees 
to act responsibly, respect human 
rights, and maintain the highest 
standards of professionalism. 
In FY25, we strengthened our 
governance framework by scaling 
up our training and awareness 
initiatives. We rolled out multi-channel 
campaigns aimed at embedding 
a culture of ethical conduct 
and compliance throughout 
the organisation. 
As part of our commitment to a 
safe and inclusive workplace, 
we refreshed our Prevention of 
Sexual Harassment (PoSH) policy 
and launched structured training 
programmes. These ensured 100% 
employee coverage, fostering 
greater awareness among our teams. 
Virtual training sessions were also 
conducted to educate employees on 
both PoSH and our Code of Ethics 
and Conduct (CoEC). We also held 
a focussed training for our Internal 
Committee (IC) members, facilitated 
by an external PoSH expert, to 
deepen their understanding of the 
enquiry process.
Our Whistle Blower Policy is an 
integral part of our governance 
framework, designed to uphold 
the values of professionalism, 
honesty, integrity, and transparency. 
This policy provides a secure 
channel for employees, partners, 
vendors, and customers to report 
any irregularities, unethical conduct, 
malpractices, or violations of 
company policies without fear 
of retaliation. 
Supporting Diversity & 
Inclusion 
Our commitment to Diversity & 
Inclusion reflects our core values 
of dignity, respect, and equality. 
We strive to create a workplace 
where every individual, regardless 
of gender, age, role, or life stage, is 
empowered to thrive. 
Inclusion of 
Transgender Persons
Through our Policy on Protection 
of Rights of Transgender Persons, 
we aim to create an inclusive 
and equitable environment for 
transgender individuals. This policy 
supports their right to privacy, use 
of chosen names and pronouns, 
and access to gender-neutral 
facilities. In line with the Transgender 
Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 
2019, it prohibits discrimination 
and promotes awareness through 
training. Employees undergoing 
transition are offered tailored support, 
ensuring that gender identity 
or expression is not a barrier to 
opportunity or growth.
Enabling Working 
Mothers: Creche 
Reimbursement Policy
To support working mothers, we 
introduced a Creche Reimbursement 
Policy, offering financial assistance 
for childcare expenses (up 
to two children per mother). 
Under this policy, mothers can 
claim up to ` 6,000 per child per 
month for certified daycare services. 
This initiative not only promotes 
gender equity but also empowers 
women professionals.
These policies are part of our 
broader culture of inclusion, where 
every individual feels supported and 
valued. By supporting transgender 
rights and caregiving needs, we are 
fostering a workplace that celebrates 
all identities and roles, ensuring no 
one is left behind.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
52
53
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
100% 
Wastewater Treated  
and Recycled
Supporting Water 
Sustainability
A series of new initiatives boosted 
our water conservation efforts during 
FY25.  We initiated the use of RO 
reject water for toilet flushing to 
reduce freshwater consumption. 
Treated water from our Sewage 
Treatment Plants (STPs) and Effluent 
Treatment Plants (ETPs) used 
for gardening and road cleaning 
purposes, while the rainwater 
collected through Rainwater 
Harvesting (RWH) pits supported 
groundwater recharge across our 
Boosting Energy Conservation
HVLS (High Volume Low Speed) fans have been installed at both the 
Bengaluru and Dehradun plants to enhance energy-efficient ventilation. 
The fans are helping to improve air circulation and reduce energy 
consumption. We have also initiated efforts to minimise carbon intensity by 
introducing electric scooters at our manufacturing facilities.
premises. We installed dedicated 
Electromagnetic Flow Meters within 
the plants to monitor water usage 
in real-time and identify potential 
leakages, enabling effective 
water conservation. 
In a water-saving innovation, 
we designed and implemented 
advanced membrane auto-flushing 
systems in institutional RO units, 
resulting in up to 60% water savings 
compared to conventional designs. 
The initiative helped enhance 
efficiency and support sustainable 
water management at EFL. 
NATURAL CAPITAL
Fostering 
Sustainable Growth
At Eureka Forbes, sustainability is not an option but an imperative that underlines 
all our strategic decisions and actions. Our approach to business growth is driven 
by our unwavering focus on nurturing the natural environment in which we live and 
operate. It is guided by our commitment to create an empowered future for the coming 
generations to thrive. We have accordingly integrated environmental responsibility 
into our business strategy, with focus on biodiversity conservation and effective 
management of energy, water and waste.
9% 
Reduction
in Water Consumption
2.1% 
Reduction
in Electricity Usage
7.5% 
Reduction
in GHG Emissions 
(Over the period of  
last 2 years)
500ml bottle each
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
54
55
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Going Paperless with Boardvantage 
We conduct paperless Board and Committee meetings through Boardvantage – a secure, Cloud 
based digital platform designed for efficient board governance. All meeting agendas, presentations, 
and supporting documents are uploaded to the portal, ensuring timely and secure dissemination of 
information to the Directors.
Boardvantage allows Directors to access documents from any location, and navigate seamlessly 
through the various meeting materials. This promotes transparency, sustainability, and ease of access 
while significantly reducing reliance on physical documents. The platform also maintains an audit trail 
and ensures version control, enhancing governance and compliance.
Through the adoption of such digital solutions, aimed at reducing paper usage and promoting 
environmentally responsible operations, the Company has not only streamlined the Board’s functioning 
but also aligned its practices with ESG goals.
Promoting Responsible 
Waste Management
Eureka Forbes holds EPR 
registrations for both plastic 
and e-waste management, and 
collaborates with authorised partners 
for recycling and safe disposal. 
Sewage and effluent treatment 
plants have been installed at 
both the manufacturing facilities, 
with the treated water reused for 
gardening and other non-potable 
applications. Additionally, we have 
partnered with certified vendors 
for effective handling of all waste 
streams, including biomedical waste, 
demonstrating our commitment 
to sustainable operations and 
regulatory compliance. We have 
removed transparent stickers 
from our products to reduce 
non-recyclable waste.
Enhancing Supply 
Chain Sustainability
Eureka Forbes recommends and 
ensures that its suppliers adhere 
to the highest social and ethical 
standards throughout the supply 
chain. We seek declaration and 
restrict hazardous material as per 
ROHS wherever required. We also 
check material composition and 
take material test certificates of 
the parts where required, as in 
the case of stainless steel tanks. 
We adhere to all mandatory 
BIS requirements.
We also recommend and 
prioritise the use of sustainable 
practices with our supply chain 
partners by promoting the use 
of re-usable PP boxes for plastic 
parts. We recommend the use of 
honeycomb for internal packaging 
as per product requirement. 
Transitioning to 
Sustainable Packaging
Our decision to transition to eco-friendly 
honeycomb packaging for water 
purifiers in place of thermocol is a 
significant step towards promoting 
sustainable packaging. We have already 
adopted such packaging for 5% of 
our product portfolio, and are  actively 
working towards a similar transition for 
our other products.
Other Initiatives in  
FY 2024-25:
To promote low-emission mobility, we 
have deployed electric scooters at our 
Dehradun facility and introduced an 
electric tempo for intra-plant material 
movement at our Bengaluru facility.
We achieved ISO 45001 certification, 
reinforcing our commitment to 
occupational health and safety standards.
Finalised agreements for the 
installation of solar energy systems 
at both manufacturing locations, with 
commissioning planned for FY26.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
56
57
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Shareholder Engagement
The Company places strong emphasis on transparent, timely, and 
meaningful communication with its shareholders. Engagement is fostered 
through regular disclosures to stock exchanges, detailed quarterly 
and annual reports, investor presentations, and dedicated investor 
relations channels. Annual General Meetings and earnings calls provide 
platforms for direct interaction, enabling shareholders to voice queries 
and receive management’s perspectives on performance, strategy, and 
governance. These efforts ensure that shareholders remain well-informed 
and confident in the Company’s vision, fostering long-term trust and 
sustained market participation.
Expanding Shareholder Base
Since listing, the Company has witnessed a significant expansion in its 
shareholder base, with institutional shareholders increasing 6.3 times 
from 25 to 157, and non-institutional shareholders growing 2.3 times 
from 13.5k to 30.6k. This growth underscores the confidence of both 
institutional and retail investors in the Company’s performance and 
long-term strategy.
Progress in Dematerialisation
The Company’s sustained focus on dematerialisation has led to a consistent 
reduction in physical shareholding — from 41,51,475 shares (2.15%) in FY 
2021-22 to 31,88,055 shares (1.65%) in FY 2024-25. These initiatives reflect 
the Company’s commitment to simplifying shareholding, promoting digital 
adoption, and enhancing the security and efficiency of trading.
4,500+ 
Students benefited
+264%
Tripled our  
CSR spend
6.3x
Increase in Institutional 
Shareholding since 
Listing (25 to 157)
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Building Stronger 
Relationships for 
Inclusive Growth
We are driven by a steadfast commitment to strengthening the 
relationships we have built with our customers, retailer and dealer 
partners, and the communities where we operate. We firmly believe that 
these bonds are crucial for enhancing our reputation as a trusted partner.
Our efforts are focussed on nurturing these relationships to foster trust 
and create inclusive value through key initiatives, helping them secure a 
sustainable future and contribute positively to society. 
Promoter Holding
Mutual Fund
Alternate Investment Funds
Foreign Portfolio Investor
Financial Institutions / Banks
Central / State Government(s)
Non-Institutions
62.56%
17.04%
0.86%
1.72%
12.53%
1.39%
3.90%
Shareholding Pattern
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
58
59
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Corporate Social 
Responsibility   
Our social outreach extends beyond 
our immediate stakeholders to the 
community at large. Through our 
Pragati by Prakriti initiative, we create 
eco-friendly schools that integrate 
sustainability, health, and education. 
In partnership with communities, 
we focus on water purification and 
sanitation to create a lasting impact. 
Last year, in Satara, Maharashtra, 
we had transformed 10 municipal 
schools by installing advanced 
RO and UV purification systems, 
providing 2,525 students and 
staff with reliable access to clean 
drinking water and significantly 
reducing waterborne diseases. 
This year active quality check of 
the water available to the students 
was done through water testing and 
maintenance work. 
In FY25, we also expanded our CSR 
agenda to Eco Schools, moving 
beyond clean water to include health 
and hygiene by providing adequate 
sanitation facilities and promoting 
WASH awareness. Our efforts 
reached over 4,500 children 
and staff from 12 schools across 
Dehradun, Bengaluru, and Mumbai. 
These schools faced significant 
challenges such as water scarcity, 
contamination, and inadequate 
sanitation facilities. 
In Dehradun, 2,175 students and 
staff across 5 schools we focussed to 
provide improved sanitation facilities, 
by refurbishing 11 existing crumbling 
toilets and newly constructing 12 
more toilets and urinal sets, for boys 
and girls. We also provided them 
clean drinking water, owing to the 
installation of 8 water purifier units. 
In Bengaluru and Mumbai, nearly 
2,300 students and staff across 7 
schools got upgraded sanitation 
facilities, with 26 toilets refurbished 
and 2 new ones constructed, along 
with  access to safe drinking water 
through the installation of 10 water 
purification units. 
To complement these infrastructure 
upgrades, extensive WASH training 
programmes were conducted for 
all children and staff, to encourage 
critical hygiene practices, 
extending their impact to families 
and communities.
Each school handover ceremony was 
attended by EFL senior leaders, to 
convey our commitment to the larger 
societal cause, and our leaders not 
only personally visited the schools, 
but also met the school management 
committees to hand over the newly 
installed facilities, and garner their 
commitment to maintaining the same 
as best as possible.
In FY25, we made significant strides in enhancing customer service and experience. We significantly improved our 
Turnaround Time (TAT) and Net Promoter Score (NPS) for service requests. By strengthening the teams managing 
customer escalations, we were able to resolve issues faster.
We have several digital interventions planned to strengthen customer experience, including auto-scheduling of calls 
centrally, leveraging AI/ML to predict escalations, developing a Field Supervisor App for better governance and service 
network. These initiatives will enable seamless and efficient service to our customers.
Enhancing Customer Experience
Promoting Partnerships with Dealers and Retailers
We recognise that our dealers and retailers play a pivotal role in driving our sustained growth and maintaining our market 
leadership. Channel management is a key priority, as our success is built on the strong, long-lasting relationships with 
our extensive network of dealers and retailers.
We are dedicated to supporting our retail partners across every stage of their business journey, ensuring a seamless 
onboarding process and actively collaborating to drive growth in their respective markets. Our comprehensive 
engagement model includes:
	 Joint Business Planning: Collaborating closely on strategic and operational goals.
	 Business Health Checks: Conducting regular reviews to ensure robust performance.
	 Operational Co-Working: Providing hands-on support to address challenges and seize opportunities.
	 Technological Enablement: Deploying advanced tools to streamline day-to-day operations.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
60
61
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
1
3
Risk Governance
All members of the Audit Committee are also part of the Risk Management Committee (RMC), ensuring seamless 
integration between risk oversight and financial governance
Risk 
Identification
	 Identifies internal and external risks that could adversely impact 
the business objectives
	 Risk identification not only refers to the systematic identification 
of risks but also to the identification of their root causes
	 Focusses on both past events and forward-looking scenarios, 
including root cause analysis
Risk 
Assessment
	 Assesses each risk based on impact (severity) and 
likelihood (probability)
	 Evaluates risks after factoring in existing controls
	 Prioritises risks as High, Medium, or Low for effective 
management focus
Risk 
Mitigation
	 Develop and implement mitigation plans to manage or 
reduce risk exposure
	 Applies strategies like risk elimination, reduction, transfer, 
or controlled acceptance
	 Continuously evaluates effectiveness of mitigation actions 
and strengthens them as needed
Risk Monitoring  
& Reporting
	 Ensures ongoing tracking of key and emerging risks
	 Includes periodic reviews by the Risk Management 
Committee and functional teams
	 Maintains structured reporting to senior management and 
the Board for timely action
RISK MANAGEMENT
Enabling a Risk-Smart,  
Future-Ready Organisation
Efficient risk management is embedded in EFL’s transformation strategy, enabling us to 
achieve long-term goals and create sustainable value. We are committed to nurturing a 
risk-aware culture across the organisation.
Our risk philosophy focusses on early identification, assessment, and mitigation of strategic and operational 
risks. This is supported by a well-structured Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework that blends robust 
governance practices with agile decision-making, technology adoption, and real-time monitoring. By continuously 
strengthening our risk capabilities and aligning them with strategic objectives, we are equipped to navigate 
disruptions and address emerging challenges in an evolving business landscape.
Eureka Forbes has established a 
robust Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) framework that aligns with 
the requirements of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations and supports informed 
and risk-adjusted decision-making. 
This framework is designed to 
proactively safeguard the Company’s 
strategic and operational objectives 
by embedding risk awareness into 
key business functions.
Risk management at EFL is a 
shared responsibility, with the Risk 
Management Committee overseeing 
governance and risk appetite, while 
individual business units actively 
assess and manage risks within 
their domains. The ERM framework 
integrates risk considerations into 
strategic planning, operations, and 
performance monitoring, fostering 
agility, accountability, and resilience.
By continuously evolving the 
framework to reflect emerging 
risks, EFL ensures its risk approach 
remains future-ready, responsive, and 
aligned with long-term value creation.
Link to our Enterprise Risk 
Management Policy: https://
www.eurekaforbes.com/cms/assets/
prod/Enterprise_Risk_Management_
Policy_a26f80ec8f.pdf
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
The RMC met twice during 
the year. Every meeting saw 
100% attendance, reflecting 
strong commitment and 
engagement from members.
Each risk is assessed for Impact, 
Probability of occurrence and 
Strength of Controls basis 
which the risks are mapped into 
following categories:
	 High
	 Medium
	 Low
Each meeting includes:
	 Comprehensive review 
of all key risks
	 Targeted deep dive into 
specific risk areas for 
detailed evaluation and 
targeted discussion in 
the committee. 
2
All meetings of the Risk Management Committee are attended by senior management personnel, who provide detailed 
insights and context on key risks. 
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
62
63
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
INFORMATION / 
CYBERSECURITY RISK
PEOPLE  
RISK
PRODUCT/
ENVIRONMENT RISK
Risk associated with 
cybersecurity, including 
cyberattacks, ransomware, data 
breaches, inadequate disaster 
recovery, and non-compliance 
with evolving data privacy laws 
such as DPDP Rules.
Risk associated with people and 
cultural factors that may hinder 
our transformation initiatives. 
Risk associated with inability to 
enhance product quality, meet 
evolving customer needs, adapt 
to rapid technological shifts and 
market trends, and comply with 
environmental regulations.
MITIGATION MEASURES
	 Detailed disaster recovery 
process is in place, ensuring 
business continuity
	 We have implemented 
several data security 
measures in areas like 
customer data, call masking, 
etc. to safeguard sensitive 
information
	 Cybersecurity awareness 
trainings have been rolled out 
across the organisation
	 We maintain in-house 
capabilities and access 
to external cybersecurity 
experts
MITIGATION MEASURES
	 We have conducted strategy 
alignment sessions and 
cascaded them across all 
employees. The first-ever 
ESOP programme covering all 
managers was rolled out
	 Sustained employee 
engagement and recognition 
programmes across levels 
are in place to drive the 
transformation agenda
	 We have built new people 
capabilities and scaled up in 
areas like R&D, Technology, 
D2C, and Sales organisation
	 ‘Voice of EFL’ engagement 
survey with a high participation 
rate helped reinforce employee 
centricity while identifying 
collaboration gaps
MITIGATION MEASURES
	 Design improvements, 
including new flow restrictors 
and flushing mechanisms, are 
underway, along with regular 
review of performance metrics
	 Our R&D and marketing 
pipelines are aligned with a 
multi-year portfolio plan, while 
new technologies and product 
variants have been launched
	 Both factories are EMS 
certified with EPR compliance 
in place. Annual filings and 
waste management ensure 
regulatory adherence. CO2 
emissions are monitored, with 
a decarbonisation roadmap 
targeting measurable 
reductions by FY26
Note: The mitigation measures are only illustrative and not exhaustive. While our Company, as part of its risk management strategy, tries 
to put in place mitigation measures to the extent possible, residual risks cannot be wished away.
The major risks identified by the Company are mapped below, along with the mitigation measures:
MARKET  
RISK
CONSUMER / 
REPUTATION RISK
SUPPLY  
CHAIN RISK
Inability to drive category growth 
and market share.
Risk associated with poor 
customer experience potential 
impact on our reputation.
Risk arising from  unexpected 
disruptions in the supply chain 
due to geopolitical or other 
external factors.
MITIGATION MEASURES
	 Significant investments are 
made in R&D and marketing 
capabilities
	 Our offerings encompass 
multiple price points – from 
entry level to premium. The 
diverse price points are 
available for both products 
and services accross 
categories
	 We have an innovation 
roadmap to ensure a steady 
pipeline of unique innovations
	 Our omnichannel approach, 
including strong go-to-market 
presence and access to 
consumer homes provides 
extensive market reach
MITIGATION MEASURES
	 Our extensive service 
network is being fortified with 
infrastructure upgrades and 
expansion
	 Continuous onboarding of 
service technicians and 
Partners with training helps in 
improving the NPS score 
	 Significant investments in 
digital capabilities empower 
customers by giving them 
greater control over their 
experience. Initiatives like 
“Customer Day” and extensive 
engagement with business 
partners foster a strong 
customer-centric mindset 
across the organisation
MITIGATION MEASURES
	 Our supply network is de-
risked through a detailed 
vendor development roadmap
	 Robust strategic partnerships 
are in place and are 
continuously enhanced 
	 Inhouse and Domestic 
manufacturing partnerships 
in key categories helps in 
maintaining healthy supply of 
products
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
64
65
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Role of Executive 
Management
The Executive Management 
plays a critical role in translating 
the Board’s strategic vision into 
actionable outcomes By fostering 
cross-functional coordination and 
a culture of accountability, the 
Management ensures operational 
excellence and aligns execution with 
the Company’s long-term objectives.
Additionally, Risk Management 
Committee meetings are attended 
by Executive committee to 
provide detailed insights and 
context on key risks.
Board Composition  
in FY25
As of March 31, 2025, our Board 
comprises seven Directors, with 
an optimal mix of Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors, including 
one woman Director. The composition 
of the Board conforms with 
Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, read with Section 149 of 
the Companies Act, 2013. The Board 
comprises members from diverse 
professional backgrounds with 
expertise across strategy, finance, 
legal, governance, technical, and 
operational domains, ensuring robust 
governance and decision-making. 
4 out of 5
Committees chaired by 
Independent Director
57%
Independent Directors 
as on March 31, 2025
100%
Designated Persons 
completed the Digital 
Insider Trading training
95%
Overall Board 
Committee Attendance
100%
Directors affirmed 
compliance with the 
code of conduct
GOVERNANCE
Upholding Highest 
Governance Standards
At Eureka Forbes, corporate governance is the foundation upon which we build our reputation, 
ensuring ethical conduct, integrity, and transparency in our operations.
Our governance practices ensure robust oversight, stakeholder value-creation, and long-term 
business growth. We are committed to continually enhancing our governance framework 
to meet evolving regulatory standards and uphold the highest standards of fairness and 
professional conduct.
Board of 
Directors
Board 
Committees 
Executive 
Management
•  Sets long-term strategic direction and vision
•  Enhances shareholder value and protects 
stakeholder interests
•  Provides oversight on performance, 
compliance, and risk
•  Focussed oversight on key 
areas: Audit, Risk, Nomination & 
Remuneration, CSR, etc.
•  Deliver expert recommendations to 
support Board deliberations
•  Implements Board-approved 
strategies and policies
•  Oversees day-to-day operations, compliance, 
and resource allocation
•  Drives performance, innovation, and 
functional  coordination
A Balanced Governance Structure:
Role of the Board
The Board of Directors plays a pivotal 
role in guiding the Company toward 
its long-term strategic goals while 
safeguarding the interests of all 
stakeholders. The Board’s oversight 
and accountability are structured 
through several mechanisms that 
contribute to sound governance 
and strategic alignment. It monitors 
the development and execution of 
business plans, capital expenditures, 
risk management policies, and 
performance targets to ensure 
alignment with the Company’s goals. 
The Board receives regular updates 
on strategic priorities, financial 
performance, regulatory changes, 
risk assessments, and CSR progress, 
ensuring they are well-equipped to 
make informed decisions.
Role of Board 
Committees
The Board has constituted five 
statutory committees, including 
the Audit Committee, Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee, 
Risk Management Committee, 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) Committee, and Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee. 
These committees provide 
oversight on crucial areas such 
as financial reporting, executive 
performance, governance, and 
stakeholder grievances, ensuring 
alignment with the Board’s vision and 
strategic directions.
WITH ITS LISTING ON THE NATIONAL STOCK EXCHANGE 
(NSE) IN SEPTEMBER 2024, EFL HAS EXPANDED THE AMBIT 
OF ITS INVESTOR AND SHAREHOLDER TRUST.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
66
67
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Eureka Forbes Limited
COLLABORATIVE GOVERNANCE: EMPOWERING STRATEGY THROUGH COMMITTEE SYNERGY:
Name of 
Committees
Name of the overlapping 
Committees
Shared members with 
other Committees
Audit Committee (AC)
3
1
100%
2
5
Total 
Members
Woman 
Director
Percentage of Attendance
Independent 
Directors
Number of 
Meetings
Risk Management Committee 
(RMC)
5
1
100%
3
2
Total 
Members
Woman 
Director
Percentage of Attendance
Independent 
Directors
Number of 
Meetings
Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee (SRC)
5
1
100%
3
1
Total 
Members
Woman 
Director
Percentage of Attendance
Independent 
Directors
Number of 
Meetings
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee (CSR)
4
1
88%
3
4
Total 
Members
Woman 
Director
Percentage of Attendance
Independent 
Directors
Number of 
Meetings
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (NRC)
4
1
88%
3
4
Total 
Members
Woman 
Director
Percentage of Attendance
Independent 
Directors
Number of 
Meetings
Seamless Risk–Control 
Convergence
Enterprise Risk Leadership 
through Collective Insights
Aligned Talent and 
Governance Strategy
Audit Committee
Risk Management Committee
Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee
RMC (100% Overlap)
AC | NRC | CSR | SRC
AC | RMC | CSR | SRC
The entire Audit Committee is part 
of the Risk Management Committee, 
ensuring an unbroken link between 
financial reporting, internal controls, 
and risk oversight. This unified 
structure enhances transparency, 
strengthens compliance, and 
enables sharper, data-driven 
mitigation strategies.
With shared members from 
all major committees, the Risk 
Management Committee acts as 
a strategic bridge – integrating 
financial, social, and stakeholder 
insights into enterprise-level risk 
oversight. This promotes holistic 
risk visibility and agile response to 
emerging uncertainties.
Shared members between the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
and other key committees help 
align leadership appointments and 
remuneration with broader governance, 
compliance, and stakeholder 
expectations. This fosters consistency 
in decision-making across risk, audit, 
and social responsibility domains.
Audit Committee 
(AC)
Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee 
(NRC)
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee 
(CSR)
Risk Management 
Committee (RMC)
Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee (SRC)
Board Committee
Audit Committee 
(AC)
NRC, RMC, CSR, SRC
Risk Management 
Committee (RMC)
AC, NRC, CSR, SRC
Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee (SRC)
CSR, AC, NRC, RMC
Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee 
(NRC)
AC, RMC, CSR, SRC
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee 
(CSR)
SRC, AC, RMC, NRC,
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
68
69
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Policy Commitments
Our Board upholds the highest governance standards and remains committed to ethical practices. This commitment 
is underpinned by our comprehensive policies, including the Whistleblower Policy, the Code of Conduct, and an active 
grievance redressal mechanism, ensuring responsible and transparent operations.
Stepping Up Compliance Through Digital Transformation
Paperless  
Governance
	 Adoption of a secure, cloud-based digital platform, to enable efficient Board governance
	 Aimed at leveraging technology, maintaining confidentiality, and eliminating paper usage
	 All Board and Committee documents – including notices, agenda papers, presentations, 
and explanatory notes are circulated digitally via the platform
	 Documents are uploaded in advance, ensuring timely access and preparedness
	 Platform is accessible across handheld devices, laptops, iPads, and web browsers, 
enabling Directors to review materials from any location
	 Enhances transparency, sustainability, and accessibility, while maintaining version control 
and audit trails to strengthen governance and compliance
Digital Compliance 
Management 
System
	 The Company has implemented an internal compliance portal
	 Designed to manage and automate end-to-end compliance activities across all 
functional areas
	 Enables tracking, updating, and monitoring of all applicable regulatory obligations
	 Ensures timely adherence to compliance requirements through an efficient, 
centralised system
Automated 
Contract 
Management
	 The Company has adopted, an automated Contract Management Tool, to streamline 
contract governance
	 Facilitates end-to-end contract lifecycle management, from drafting to execution
	 Supports enforcement and execution of contracts with improved accuracy and speed
	 Maintains a secure, online repository of enforceable contracts, while preserving historical 
records for reference and compliance tracking
Insider Trading  
Compliance 
Automation
	 In line with SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, the Company employs 
an automated Insider Trading Monitoring Tool to track the trading activities of 
designated persons
	 Conducts regular sensitisation sessions for designated employees to reinforce 
awareness of their duties and ensure strict adherence to the Insider Trading framework
POLICY MATRIX
Other Practices
Related party transactions
All transactions with related 
parties are conducted in strict 
adherence to applicable laws and 
governance standards, ensuring 
both transparency and equitable 
treatment. Decisions regarding these 
transactions are made by the Audit 
Committee, who actively engage 
in deliberations.
Strictures and penalties
During the year under review, 
Directors and Key Management 
Personnel maintained full 
compliance, with no regulatory 
actions or penalties imposed by 
stock exchanges, the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI), or any other capital market 
regulatory authorities.
Statutory Policies
Dividend Distribution Policy
Anti-Bribery Policy
Business Responsibility Policy
Archival Policy
Code of Conduct for 
Board of Directors Senior 
Management
Code of Conduct for 
Non-Executive Director
Code for Prevention of Insider 
Trading
Enterprise Risk Management 
Policy
Familiarisation Programme for 
Independent Directors
Nomination and Remuneration 
Policy
Policy for Determination of 
Materiality for disclosures
Policy on Material Subsidiary
Policy on Preservation of 
Documents
Whistle Blower Policy
Policy on Materiality of Related 
Party Transactions and on 
dealing with Related Party 
Transactions
Donations and political 
contributions
In alignment with the Code of 
Conduct’s commitment to political 
neutrality, EFL maintains a strict 
policy against political donations and 
involvement in political campaigns.
Familiarisation programme 
for Directors
The Company maintains a 
comprehensive induction and 
familiarisation programme for 
its Directors. They are regularly 
informed about business matters and 
new initiatives. Regular presentations 
and updates on relevant statutory 
changes, encompassing the 
economic outlook, market trends, 
peer trends, and changes in laws 
where the Company operates, 
are made to the Directors at 
regular Board Meetings of the 
Company. The Managing Director 
& Chief Executive Officer and the 
Leadership Team provide updates 
on the Company’s performance and 
strategic initiatives.
All Committee meetings are 
attended by every Board 
member, regardless of their 
specific Committee membership, 
ensuring collective awareness and 
participation. Additionally, Risk 
Management Committee meetings 
are attended by senior management 
to provide detailed insights and 
context on key risks.
Read more under the Corporate Governance Report on Page 106
Short-Term Treasury Policy
Audit Trail Policy for EFL – 
Financial System
Creche Policy
IT Policy
Transgender Policy
Non-Statutory Policies
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
70
71
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Board of Directors
Mr. Arvind Uppal
Mr. Pratik Pota
Mr. Sahil Dalal
Chairman of the Board,  
Non-Executive  
Non-Independent Director
Executive Director 
Managing Director & 
Chief Executive Officer
Non-Executive 
Non‑Independent Director
Mr. Uppal is a BTech from IIT Delhi and holds a Masters in Business 
Administration from FMS, Delhi. He has also completed an Executive 
Program at I.M.D Switzerland. With over thirty-two years in the consumer 
industry, he first gained prominence at Nestlé, particularly for his work on the 
Maggi brand across multiple countries. He then served as President Asia 
Pacific for Whirlpool Corporation, leading a notable operational turnaround. 
Presently, Mr. Arvind Uppal is the Non-Executive Chairman of Whirlpool of India 
Ltd. and a Director at Gulf Oil Lubricants India Limited. He holds board positions 
at Amber Enterprises India Limited, Lifestyle International Pvt. Ltd. (Landmark 
Group) and acts as an Industry Advisor to Advent International.
Pratik Pota is the Managing Director & CEO at Eureka Forbes Ltd., one of 
India’s leading consumer durables companies. In a career spanning more 
than three decades, Pratik has held leadership positions at some of India’s 
leading companies including Hindustan Unilever, PepsiCo and Bharti Airtel.  
In his last role as CEO of Jubilant Foodworks Ltd., the master franchisee for 
Domino’s, Dunkin’ Donuts and Popeyes in South Asia, Pratik led the turnaround 
of the business. He implemented a new strategy for growth for the company, 
drove digital transformation for Domino’s and made it ready to compete in a 
post-aggregator world, launched new cuisines and entered new international 
markets such as Turkey, Russia and Bangladesh. Top-line growth surged, and 
EBITDA margins doubled, leading to JFL’s market capitalisation growing almost 
ten-fold in the five years of his leadership. In his earlier stint, Pratik was the COO, 
Beverages and Foods at PepsiCo India. He was also the CEO of NourishCo 
Beverages, which was then a 50-50 JV between PepsiCo and Tata Global 
Beverages; Pratik turned around the fledgling business and put it on the path to 
grow and scale. Earlier in his career, Pratik has held several leadership positions 
at Hindustan Unilever Ltd. and Bharti Airtel. As part of this, one of his memorable 
stints at HUL included the conceptualisation, design and launch of Project Shakti, 
India’s pioneering micro-finance based rural initiative which involved partnering 
with Government, MFIs & NGOs to create and empower women entrepreneurs in 
Self Help Groups to distribute HUL’s products in small, remote villages. This was 
widely recognised as an innovative and pioneering business model which was 
then scaled up by Unilever globally. An entrepreneur leader at heart, Pratik is a 
distinguished Alumnus of BITS Pilani and an MBA from IIM Calcutta.
Mr. Sahil Dalal joined Advent in 2009 and leads Advent India’s investing efforts in 
the Retail, Consumer & Leisure sector, and the Technology / Technology Services 
sector. Prior to Advent, Mr. Sahil was an associate with JLL Partners, a New 
York-based private equity firm where he focussed on buyout and growth equity 
transactions. Prior to JLL Partners, Mr. Sahil spent three years with Bear Stearns 
in New York as an analyst in its Investment Banking Division. Sahil has 18 years 
of experience in Private Equity and 21 years of experience in financial services. 
Sahil has a BBA with High Distinction from The Ross School of Business at the 
University of Michigan and an MBA from The Wharton School at the University of 
Pennsylvania. He has led, co-led, and supported on 12 investments at Advent. 
He is also a director in Advent India PE Advisors Private Limited, DFM Foods 
Limited and Modenik Lifestyle Private Limited and was previously a Director at 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited.
C
M
M
M
M
M
M
Mr. Vinod Rao
Non-Executive –  
Independent Director
Mr. Vinod Rao holds a Bachelor of Commerce from Madras University and  
is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. He attended  
a Senior Executive Programme at London Business School. With over  
35 years in finance roles, Mr. Vinod Rao has worked with global giants such 
as Diageo, PepsiCo, and ICI, spanning industries like FMCG and consumer 
durables. His last executive role was Group Treasurer and Head of Investor 
Relations at Diageo Plc, London. He possesses expertise in both developed 
and developing markets, including India and Europe. Additionally, he serves 
as a Director in Cohance Lifesciences Limited and acts as a Trustee for the 
UK-based Isha Foundation.
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
Non-Executive –  
Independent Director
Mrs. Gurveen Singh earned her Bachelor’s in Philosophy Honours from Lady 
Sri Ram College, Delhi University, and further honed her skills with a Post 
Graduate degree in ‘Personnel Management and Industrial Relations’ from 
Xavier Labour Relations Institute, Jamshedpur. She is a seasoned specialist 
in Human Resource Management with a 42-year career span. She retired 
as the Chief Human Resources Officer of Reckitt Benckiser PLC, a FTSE 20 
Company, in 2020. She holds board positions with Viyash Life Sciences Private 
Limited and VLCC Health Care Limited. Her career also includes key HR roles 
in the hospitality, manufacturing and FMCG industry. She also had a global 
career with Reckitt Benckiser both in developing and developed markets. 
Mrs. Gurveen Singh has been instrumental in establishing foundational HR 
functions in prominent companies, thereby facilitating their growth.
Mr. Homi Katgara
Non-Executive –  
Independent Director
Mr. Homi Katgara, Partner, is the youngest of the fourth generation of the 
founding family which established Jeena & Company 125 years ago, making 
them the pioneers of Freight Forwarding in India. During his tenure of nearly 
forty three years in the forwarding industry, Mr. Katgara has been actively 
involved in the day-to-day management of Jeena & Company. He is also 
a Partner and a Director in various Jeena Group Companies and with his 
demanding schedule also finds the time to be the Managing Trustee at Masina 
Hospital which is one of the oldest and most venerated institutions of Bombay. 
Mr. Katgara has been the Past President of the Air Cargo Club of Bombay 
and has also served on the committee at the Rotary Club of Bombay and the 
Balloting & Disciplinary Committee of The Willingdon Sports Club – one of 
the Premier Sporting Clubs in Bombay. He was also a Committee Member of 
the Indo Canadian Business Chamber. Apart from the above, he is also into 
real estate and on the philanthropic side, strongly believes in “giving back to 
society what we have received from it” which he does through Charitable Trusts 
& Foundations set up by the family.
Mr. Shashank Samant
Non-Executive –  
Independent Director
Mr. Shashank Samant is an alumnus of Pune University. He currently serves 
as Executive Chairman of Hitachi Americas, after retiring as its President & 
CEO in 2022. Before GlobalLogic, he was President of Ness Technologies, 
leading the Company to a NASDAQ IPO in 2004. He has also made significant 
contributions to Hewlett-Packard’s Verifone division and was instrumental in 
establishing IBM’s first India-based software engineering lab. At the onset of 
his career, he was part of Citicorp’s team that developed FlexCube banking 
technology. Additionally, Mr. Shashank Samant serves on the Boards of Office 
Depot, Rackspace Technology, and Cyderes.
  Audit Committee
  Nomination and Remuneration Committee
  Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
  Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
  Risk Management Committee
C - Chairperson/Chairman      M - Member
C
C
M
M
M
C
M
C
M
M
M
M
M
M
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
72
73
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Key Managerial Personnel
Management Executive Committee
Mr. Aviral Chopra
Chief Supply Chain Officer
Mr. Pratik Pota
Managing Director &  
Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Gaurav Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Ms. Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
Mr. Vivek Kumar Sharma
Chief Quality & Regulatory Officer
Mr. Rakesh Moza
Chief Sales Officer
Mr. Gaurav Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Nithyanand Shankar
Chief Business Officer
Mr. Anurag Kumar
Chief Growth Officer
Mr. Satish Satyarthi
Chief Innovation & R&D Officer
Ms. Mahnaz Shaikh
Chief Human Resources Officer
Mr. Suresh Redhu
Chief Technical Officer
Awards
Eureka Forbes Limited - Dehradun Plant was honoured  
with the prestigious Safety Award in the Large Enterprise 
(Consumer Durables) category by the Global Safety Summit.
ET’s Awards for Outstanding Innovation.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
74
75
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
77
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Corporate Information
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Mr. Arvind Uppal 
Chairman, Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director 
Mr. Pratik Pota 
Managing Director & CEO 
Mr. Sahil Dalal 
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director 
Mr. Vinod Rao 
Independent Director 
Mrs. Gurveen Singh 
Independent Director 
Mr. Homi Katgara 
Independent Director 
Mr. Shashank Samant 
Independent Director 
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL 
Mr. Pratik Pota 
Managing Director & CEO 
Mr. Gaurav Khandelwal 
Chief Financial Officer 
Ms. Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer 
BANKERS 
Axis Bank Ltd. 
ICICI Bank Ltd. 
Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. 
State Bank of India 
HDFC Bank Ltd. 
Citi Bank Ltd.
AUDITORS 
M/s. Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP 
Statutory Auditors 
M/s. PricewaterhouseCoopers
Internal Auditors
M/s. Mihen Halani & Associates 
Secretarial Auditors 
M/s. J Chandra & Associates 
Cost Auditors 
CORPORATE AND REGISTERED OFFICE 
B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova, Ganpatrao Kadam 
Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400 013 
REGISTRAR AND SHARE TRANSFER AGENT 
MUFG Intime India Private Limited  
(Formerly Known as Link Intime India Private Limited) 
C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West), 
Mumbai – 400 083 
Phone: +91 22 4918 6000 
E-mail: info@mufgintime.co.in. 
Contact Person: Mr. Ishwar Suvarna 
CIN: U67190MH1999PTC118368 
PLANT LOCATIONS 
Dehradun 
Khasra Number 3946, 3961 & 3962, Lal Tappar Industrial 
Area, Majri Grant, Dehradun-Haridwar Highway,  
Tehsil – Rishikesh, Dist. – Dehradun,  
Uttarakhand- 248140 
Bengaluru 
Plot No.143, C-4, Bommasandra Industrial Area,  
Hosur Road, Bengaluru – 560 099
Management Discussion and Analysis
ECONOMIC OVERVIEW 
Global Economy 
The global economy exhibited resilience in 2024 despite 
continued macroeconomic and geopolitical headwinds. 
According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), global 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at 3.3%, reflecting 
continued economic momentum. However, growth remained 
uneven across regions, with advanced economies recording 
a 1.8% growth, while emerging markets and developing 
economies (EMDEs) grew at 4.3%, underscoring regional 
economic disparities. 
Global economic growth is expected to moderate from 
3.3% in 2024 to 2.8% in 2025, before recovering to 3% in 
2026. This positive outlook is underpinned by sustained 
strength in the US economy and continued momentum 
across several key emerging markets. In the US, growth 
is expected at 1.8% in 2025 and 1.7% in 2026, reflecting 
the moderation in labour market activity and a potential 
softening in consumer spending. Meanwhile, the Eurozone 
is projected to recover gradually, with growth improving 
from 0.8% in 2025 to 1.2% in 2026, supported by easing 
inflation and a rebound in consumer demand. However, the 
combined effects of trade restrictions, their spillover through 
global trade linkages, and rising uncertainty may impact 
the pace of economic recovery.
In emerging market and developing economies, growth 
performance in 2025 and 2026 is expected to broadly match 
that in 2024. Advanced economies are expected to see mild 
pick up in growth from 1.7% in 2024 to 1.9% in 2025 and 
1.8% in 2026. Overall, global growth is expected at 3.3% 
in 2025 and 2026 each, with likely pick-up in the US and 
continued muted growth in the Euro area. The new policy 
implementations by the US in wake of the new President 
need to be closely monitored. Trade wars can pose fresh 
challenges to the global economy with disruptions in supply 
chain and volatility in commodity prices. 
India Economy 
In FY 2024-25, India continued to be one of the 
fastest-growing major economies in the World, led by 
strong domestic demand, structural reforms and supportive 
policies. According to the Second Advance Estimates by the 
National Statistics Organisation (NSO), India’s GDP growth 
is expected at 6.5% in FY 2024-25, much lower than 9.2% 
GDP growth in FY 2023-24. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) 
inflation for FY 2024-25 is estimated at 4.8%, reflecting an 
improvement from 5.4% in FY 2023-24. To address liquidity 
challenges, the Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy 
Committee (MPC) reduced the repo rate by 25 basis points 
to 6.25% on February 7, 2025, marking the first rate cut 
since May 2020. Despite this adjustment, the MPC 
maintained a neutral stance to ensure flexibility in responding 
to economic shifts. The government’s strong commitment to 
foster economic growth, strengthen financial resilience, and 
create an inclusive development environment– Viksit Bharat 
bodes well for economic development.
Outlook 
According to RBI estimates, the Indian economic 
growth rate is expected at 6.7% in FY 2025-26 riding 
on the back of expected recovery in industrial activity, 
heightened household consumption aided by tax reliefs 
in Union Budget 2025-26, and good agricultural produce 
expected in FY 2025-26. Government’s push for digital 
transformation, financial inclusion and ease of doing 
business has created a favourable environment to attract 
foreign direct investment (FDI). This is further aided by the 
attractive production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes aimed 
at boosting domestic manufacturing.
(Source: IMF Economic Outlook – April 2025)
2023
2024
4.4
4.3
1.7
1.8
3.3
3.3
Global economy
Advanced economies
Emerging markets and developing economies
Eureka Forbes Limited
76
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
78
79
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Total Addressable Market (TAM)
India’s home and hygiene product categories remain 
significantly underpenetrated, offering a long runway for 
growth within a ` 23,000 crore market growing at a 13% CAGR.
•	
Water Purifiers (6% penetration) are expected to 
grow from ` 4,400 crore in FY 2023 to ` 10,000 crore 
by FY 2030 (13% CAGR)
•	
Vacuum Cleaners (2% penetration) are set to 
expand from ` 500 crore to ` 1,500 crore in the same 
period (17% CAGR)
•	
Air Purifiers, with less than 1% penetration, 
are projected to surge from ` 230 crore to ` 749 
crore (18% CAGR)
•	
Water Softeners will grow from ` 1,000 crore to ` 1,900 
crore (10% CAGR)
•	
Water Purifier Services will rise from ` 3,700 crore to 
` 9,000 crore (14% CAGR)
With such low penetration levels, particularly in air and 
vacuum cleaning solutions, the sector is poised for robust 
expansion, driven by increasing awareness, urbanisation, 
and a shift towards convenience-led hygiene solutions.
Water purifier industry
According to the 2023 report by the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organisation, ~37.7 
million Indians are afflicted with water-borne diseases 
annually, with ~1.5 million child casualties from diarrhoea. 
Water contamination continues to pose challenges in 
India, especially the interior pockets, having unsafe 
drinking water. Consumers are increasingly becoming 
health-conscious and are resorting to convenient 
means to ensure safe, clean drinking water. The rising 
incidences of water-borne diseases and awareness on 
general hygiene has increased consumer concerns 
about the safety of drinking water, resulting in increased 
adoption of water purifiers in households. Technological 
advancements in water purification systems have 
made water purifiers more affordable, efficient, and 
user-friendly. The increasing availability of affordable 
models, advanced filtration systems, and trend of 
health-conscious consumers is giving a boost to the 
water purifier market in India.
Various government initiatives and regulations promoting 
clean water access, with campaigns such as the Swachh 
Bharat Abhiyan, Jal Jeevan Mission, etc. and efforts 
to improve rural water infrastructure, have resulted in 
increased adoption of water purifiers. Swachh Bharat 
Abhiyan emphasises the importance of cleanliness and 
access to clean water. The mission has significantly 
raised awareness about water quality issues at pan 
India level, encouraging individuals and communities 
to take proactive steps to ensure the purity of drinking 
water. 
The 
implementation 
government 
initiatives 
facilitating the distribution of water purification systems 
in rural and urban areas ensures access to safe drinking 
water for underserved communities. The heightened 
awareness about need of clean water has fostered 
a sense of responsibility among consumers to adopt 
water purification solutions. Easy access to electricity, 
availability of retail outlets, and distribution networks 
have made it easier for consumers to purchase and 
maintain water purifiers.
Among the various types of technologies available in water 
purifiers, like gravity purifiers, RO purifiers, UV purifiers, 
sediment filter, water softener, among others, RO purifiers 
account for the largest market share. RO technology is 
apt for removing numerous pollutants, including heavy 
metals, dissolved salts, bacteria, and viruses, ensuring 
that the purified water meets stringent quality standards. 
RO purifiers significantly reduce the risk of waterborne 
illnesses by producing safe and potable drinking water. 
The widespread availability of impure water sources, 
especially in urban and semi-urban areas, is driving the 
adoption of RO purifiers since they offer practical solution 
to households and businesses seeking reliable and 
convenient ways to obtain clean drinking water without 
the need for expensive bottled water. RO can cater to 
diverse water sources, including borewell, municipal, 
and tanker water, adding to its appeal while ensuring 
that consumers across various regions and water quality 
profiles can benefit from its purification capabilities.
Rapid urbanisation and industrialisation led to increased 
pollution of water sources, further emphasising the need for 
effective water purification systems, thus creating a positive 
market outlook. With increasing female participation in 
the workforce, growing middle class population and 
dual income families, there is an increased reliance on 
packaged drinking water, bottled water, and home-based 
water purification systems. Urban households seek 
convenient and accessible solutions that fit their modern, 
fast-paced lives, like easy access to clean water for 
drinking, cooking, and hygiene purposes. Additionally, 
businesses, manufacturing units, and service sectors 
also prefer ready access to clean and safe water for their 
operations and workforce. There is growing understanding 
of the impact of waterborne diseases on workforce health 
and productivity prompting businesses to invest in water 
purification systems at workplaces.
There exists a substantial underserved and unserved 
market for both water purifier products and services in India 
due to a large base of non-users dependent on traditional 
purification methods such as boiling, cloth, and sieves. 
Urban penetration for water jars stands at 11% is almost 
at par with 12% for electric water purifiers. With growing 
awareness about the need for safe and clean drinking 
water, transition from conventional methods to advanced 
technologies is picking pace. Overall water purifier 
penetration in India at 6% is significantly lower than other 
Asian countries, with China at 21%, South Korea leads at 
Rising disposable income
Per capita income up 2.37× since FY15; 
+8.8% in FY25, +70% projected by FY30.
(Source: India 2030: Middle class to drive experience-led 
spending — NSO [Campaign India])
Urbanisation
Urban population to rise from 34% to 40% 
by 2036; cities to drive ~70% of GDP.
(Source: World Bank)
Jal Jeevan Mission & Piped water access
Since 2019, rural tap water access 
has surged from ~17% to nearly ~80% 
(15.4 crore homes), supported by 
` 67,000 crore funding
(Source: PIB)
Unpredictable domestic help
Unreliable domestic help fuels demand for 
dependable cleaning solutions
Growing aspirational middle class
50%+ middle class by 2030  
(50 crore households), driving shift to 
aspirational consumption.
(Source: India 2030: Middle class to drive experience-led 
spending — NSO [Campaign India])
Increased female workforce participation
Female labour force up from 23.3% to 37% 
(FY18-FY23); worker share from 28%  
to 36%.
(Source: PLFS, MoSPI)
Universal electrification
Rising household access to uninterrupted 
electricity is driving wider adoption of 
appliances and fuelling market growth.
(Source: Access to electricity - Data for India)
Growing focus on health and hygiene
Post-pandemic rise in water & air-borne 
infections shifts India’s mindset toward 
investing in home hygiene
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Trends Shaping the Industry
The Company operates in the health and hygiene space covering vacuum cleaners, water purifiers and air purifiers. 
While these categories have specific growth drivers, the general awareness towards health provides a boost to all these 
categories. Favourable demographics work in favour of growing importance of health and provide momentum to all the 
categories EFL is present in.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
80
81
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
60%, and Thailand at 20%. This gap highlights the huge 
growth opportunity for the Indian water purifier market.
These various growth factors are expected to propel 
the Indian water purifier market from ` 4,400 crore in FY 
2023 to ` 10,000 crore by FY 2030 at a robust 13% CAGR 
during 2025-2033. With path-breaking advancements in 
technology, customisation and convenience factor of water 
purifiers have multiplied manifold. Households value the 
ability to customise their water purification preferences 
based on their specific needs like taste preferences, family 
size, and health considerations.
Eureka Forbes is uniquely placed in this lucrative growth 
market of water purifiers, with first-mover advantage. 
EFL has garnered robust brand strength and built long 
lasting customer relationships, reflected in its extensive 
customer database of over 14+ million. The Company has 
built a strong moat with an omni-channel, multi-price points 
product assortment, strong in-house frontline team with 
over 2,130 employees and unmatched distribution strength 
spanning across 19,500+ pin codes. The Company has 
adopted a customer-centric approach with innovation 
at the heart of its operations. Viewing the unserved and 
underserved regions as a huge market opportunity, the 
Company has upped its ante on marketing spends, to tap 
on the huge growth opportunity the sector presents.
Vacuum cleaner industry
The Indian population is increasingly realising the various 
benefits of vacuum cleaners, such as removing and lifting 
dirt & dust, effectively cleaning the environment to reduce 
the risks of allergies, etc. Rising awareness coupled with 
rapid urbanisation with smaller living spaces is resulting 
in growing demand for convenient cleaning solutions. 
This is leading to increased acceptance of vacuum 
cleaners in urban households. Other factors contributing 
to the vacuum cleaner market growth include favourable 
demographics, growing female workforce participation, 
dual income families, and rising disposable incomes. 
As purchasing power increases, the demand for home 
appliances increases. The unpredictability of domestic help 
is making vacuum cleaners a useful backup option due to 
its efficiency and ease of use. In fact, in several homes, 
vacuum cleaners are used by domestic help to access 
difficult-to-reach areas.
In commercial setups like malls technologically advanced 
vacuum cleaners are used by manual labour for effective 
and efficient cleaning. This is also widely observed in 
industrial setting and offices wherein manual labour is 
integrated with advanced technology in vacuum cleaners. 
Recent technological advancement in the vacuum cleaner 
industry with adoption of smart technology is revolutionising 
the market. Use of robotics and innovations allowing 
vacuum cleaners to reach the farthest corners without the 
need for the user to bend, is leading to increased popularity 
of vacuum cleaners in Indian households.
The growth potential of the Indian vacuum cleaner industry 
is humungous given several unserved and underserved 
markets. With 2% per capita, India’s vacuum cleaner 
penetration is substantially lower as compared to Asian 
peers, like 90% in Japan, 80% in Hong Kong and 20% in 
China. The Indian vacuum clearner market is valued at over 
` 500 crore in FY 2023 and is estimated to grow to over 
` 1,500 crore by FY 2030 at CAGR of 17%.
Active government participation through various initiatives 
like Swachh Bharat Mission are increasing citizens 
awareness about cleanliness & sanitisation. This is likely to 
promote the adoption of vacuum cleaners across end-users 
like industrial, commercial, and residential. Also, different 
options made available in vacuum cleaners like canister, 
central, drum, robotic, upright, wet and dry, etc., acts as a 
driving force for the adoption of vacuum cleaner in India.
Air purifier industry
In India, air pollution is a major and growing risk factor for 
illness both in rural and urban areas. Several cities are 
suffering from dangerous pollution levels due to increasing 
industrial activities and construction, leading to poor 
air quality. In addition, growing prevalence of air-borne 
diseases and dust particles in the air, is leading to a surge 
in adoption of air purifiers. Increasing awareness about 
quality of indoor air is aiding market growth. The India 
air purifier market size was estimated at ` 230 crore in 
FY 2023. Air purifier will be a big opportunity going ahead 
as air quality is no longer a season or regional issue, 
with 83 out of the 100 most polluted cities globally are 
in India. The most widely used air purifiers contain the 
High-Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters that constitute 
high velocity air designed to dry out viruses.
With air pollution in the country growing at alarming rates, 
air purifiers are increasingly being viewed as necessity 
from luxury items. The market is expected to grow at 
18% CAGR over 2023-2030, reaching ` 749 crore in 
FY 2030. Strong focus on innovation by manufacturers 
with high incorporation of advanced technology is 
propelling market growth.
Source: India Air Purifier Market Size, Share & Growth - 2034
BUSINESS DIVISIONS
With over four decades of existence, our business has 
emerged as a leading health and hygiene brand in India. 
We are a multi-product, omni-channel organisation, with 
product portfolio comprising water purifiers, vacuum 
cleaner and air purifiers. Our product range straddles 
across price points and are available across channels 
including direct, retail, e-commerce and institutional sales. 
We also have one of the most expansive service networks 
across the country.
TRANSFORMATION INITIATIVES - FOCUSSED ON 
LONG-TERM CAPABILITY BUILD
We are a company with a proud legacy of over four 
decades. Our role is to strengthen this foundation and 
make it future-ready for the decades ahead.
This requires building structural capabilities that ensure 
sustainable, long-term value creation for all stakeholders.
Over the past two years, we have consciously enhanced 
our investments across multiple dimensions of the business 
from capital expenditure and R&D to brand building and 
growth initiatives.
To reinforce our long-term capabilities, we increased capital 
expenditure threefold and will continue to consistently invest 
more than ` 50 crore annually. Innovation has remained 
central to our strategy, and accordingly, we have doubled 
our R&D talent pool and investments. Our innovation 
pipeline is strong, well-structured, and future-ready.
We believe that this has been critical for us being able to 
reclaim our mantle of innovators and pioneers. I am pleased 
to report that we have a robust future-ready innovation 
pipeline in place.
As category creators, it is equally critical that we remain 
ahead of the curve in consumer engagement. In FY25, 
we increased our A&SP investments by 25%, thereby 
strengthening brand equity and consumer connect.
We recognise that business success depends on balancing 
short-term performance with long-term value creation. 
We are committed to pursuing this balanced approach, 
ensuring both immediate resilience and sustainable growth 
for the future.
Transformation Investments : Focussed On Long-Term Capability Build
Transformation Investments
~3x  
Capex spends at an average of ` 45 Cr 
per year since last 2 years
Capex
• Capex guidance: ` 50 Cr – 60 Cr annually
• Focussed on product innovation and digitisation
2x  
R&D annual spends scaled up to  
~` 20 Cr in FY25 vs ~` 10 Cr in FY23 
(pre transformation)
R&D
• New R&D Centre under development
• Commissioning by Q3
17%  
Average A&SP growth for last  
2 years; 25% in FY25
Growth 
investments
• A&SP maintained at elevated levels
• Will scale up with 2x launch and Robotics investments
Revenue Contribution
Note: 1. Revenue Contribution for FY25.  2. Other Revenue include 
Non-electric Water Purifiers, Air, Softener, B2B Water Products.  
3. Service Revenue includes Sale of AMC, Filter and Spares.
Service 
33%
Electric Water  
Purifiers  
44%
Vacuum 
Cleaners  
14%
Others 
9%
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
82
83
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
In the fiscal year 2025, Eureka Forbes demonstrated robust 
growth and operational excellence, reflecting the success 
of our strategic initiatives and transformation journey. 
We achieved a revenue of ` 2,436 crore, delivering a 
continuing business growth of 12.0%. This was at the back 
of six consecutive quarters of double-digit growth, fuelled 
by volume expansion, innovation, premiumisation, and new 
product launches.
Our products business demonstrated strong high-teens 
growth in all quarters of FY25, led by both volumes and 
mix led pricing. Our growth was fuelled by continuous 
innovation and premiumisation across product categories. 
We launched 30 new products, including industry-first 
smart water purifier and advanced robotic vacuum 
cleaners, catering to diverse consumer segments. 
This focus on product excellence and portfolio expansion 
helped sustain market leadership position and enhancing 
overall brand equity.
The service business started showing green shoots, with 
an increase in AMC unit sales and a dedicated focus on 
expanding filter sales through multiple interventions in 
filter innovations and a separate go-to-market strategy. 
Our strong business partner and technician base help 
us in delivering superior customer experience and build 
lifetime value.
Category Growth
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Electric Water Purifiers
18.1%
10.6%
Vacuum Cleaners
12.8%
18.9%
Others*
18.3%
13.8%
Total Product
17.0%
12.7%
Service
3.0%
0.4%
Overall Growth
12.0%
7.9%
Growth for Continuing Business
*Others includes Air Purifiers, Non-Electric Water Purifiers,
Softeners and B2B
Gross margins sustained at a strong 58.3% (compared to 
58.8% in FY24), reflecting resilience despite commodity cost 
movements. This supported by a disciplined cost structure 
and efficient supply chain management led to 640 bps 
improvement in Operating expenses (excluding advertising 
and sales promotion) over two years, reflecting the 
effectiveness of our structured cost optimisation programmes 
and automation initiatives. This efficiency contributed to an 
adjusted EBITDA margin expansion to 11.7%, up from 10.3% 
in the previous year, reflecting an expansion of 136 bps.
Investments in innovation and growth remained a key 
priority. Our R&D spends at ~` 20 crore continued to remain 
at similar levels compared to FY24 (~` 19 crore), alongside 
several investments to strengthen our R&D capabilities. 
Our R&D agenda encompasses new mould development, 
product enhancements, and platform and technology 
development, with a new R&D Centre under development 
for commissioning in FY26. Capital expenditure increased 
~3x, averaging approximately ` 45 crore per year over the 
last two years, signalling a robust commitment to long-term 
growth through innovation and product development.
Our financial discipline has resulted in exceptional cash flow 
generation, with free cash flow at ` 214 crore, representing 
131% of profit after tax, and a strong free cash flow to 
capex ratio of 3.9x. With a Return on Capital Employed of 
> 350%, we delivered industry-leading capital efficiency.
We have strengthened our cash position, reinforcing strong
fundamentals in our balance sheet.
Our FY25 performance demonstrates the strength and 
resilience of our business model. We continue to deliver 
improved margins underpinned by a strong product 
and service mix, while being inherently cash-accretive. 
With a strong annuity business and a negative working 
capital, we are able to generate strong free cash flows 
and sustain superior returns on capital employed (ROCE). 
This combination of profitability, capital efficiency, and 
disciplined execution reinforces our ability to consistently 
create long-term value for our shareholders, while 
maintaining a strong balance sheet and the flexibility to 
invest in future growth opportunities.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Our FY 2024-25 performance reflects a decisive break from long-term historical trends. In the third year of our transformation 
journey, we have delivered accelerated growth across all three key parameters – revenue, profitability, and cash generation. 
This consistent, broad-based improvement demonstrates the strength of our strategic initiatives, the depth of operational 
execution, and the cultural shift towards high performance.
Parameter
Long-Term  
(FY 12 – FY 22)
FY 23
FY 24
FY 25
Revenue Growth*
Low Single digit
6.1%
7.9%
12.0%
Adj EBITDA%
3.8% Avg
6.3%
10.3%
11.7%
Net Surplus/(Debt)
Net debt
` (31) Cr
` 122 Cr
` 284 Cr
Note: * Revenue Growth for Continuing Business.
   Adjusted (Adj.) EBITDA is defined as PBT (before exceptional items) + Finance cost + Depreciation + ESOP charge less other 
non-operating income.
Key Financial Metrics
In FY 2024-25, the Company’s revenue witnessed robust growth of 12.0% in continuing business and 11.3% on reported 
basis. The revenue stood at ` 2,436.1 crore for the year compared to ` 2,189.2 crore in FY 2023-24. This strong growth is 
attributable to unwavering focus on innovations. Adjusted EBITDA increased 25.9% to ` 285.0 crore from ` 226.3 crore in 
FY 2023-24 led by cost-saving initiatives. PAT increased 78.4% to ` 163.3 crore from ` 91.5 crore in FY 2023-24.
Capital Efficiency FY25
>350%
ROCE
NEGATIVE
WORKING CAPITAL
1.
Revenue growth is for continuing business.
2.
	Adjusted ( Adj) EBITDA is defined as PBT (before exceptional items) + Finance cost + Depreciation + ESOP charge less other
non-operating income.
3.
	Adjusted (ADJ) PBT is defined as PBT (before exceptional items) + ESOP charge.
4.
	ROCE = EBIT / Capital employed,  EBIT = EBITDA - Depreciation & Amortisation + Other Income,  Capital employed = Tangible Net
Worth + Total Debt + Deferred Tax Liabilities
5.
Working Capital equals to current assets minus current liabilities.
Net Surplus
284
122
FY 25
FY 24
(` in crore)
92
163
FY 25
FY 24
PAT
(` in crore)
Adj PBT Margin
7.9%
9.7%
FY 25
FY 24
182 bps
(%)
Revenue Growth
7.9%
12.0%
FY 25
FY 24
(%)
10.3%
11.7%
FY 25
FY 24
Adj EBITDA Margin
136 bps
(%)
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
84
85
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Key Financial Performance, Operational Highlights and Financial Ratios:
(` in crore)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
Financial Year 
ended March 
31, 2025 
Financial Year 
ended March 
31, 2024
Financial Year 
ended March 
31, 2025 
Financial Year 
ended March 
31, 2024
Revenue
2,436.06
2,189.23
2,436.91
2,189.25
Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, 
and Amortisation (EBITDA)
262.89
191.87
265.59
198.64
Profit Before Tax (PBT)
218.87
122.40
220.70
128.47
Profit After Tax (PAT)
163.28
91.57
164.41
95.65
Fixed Assets
282.44
270.66
285.19
273.60
Total Comprehensive Income
159.85
89.21
160.97
93.52
Loan Funds
0
24.92
0
24.92
Key Financial Ratio
Key ratio/indicator
Standalone
Consolidated
Refer Note
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Debtors turnover (in days)
24
22
24
22
Inventory turnover ratio
4.17
3.96
3.99
3.76
Interest coverage ratio
39.04
15.15
39.47
15.69
a
Current ratio
0.80
0.61
0.84
0.64
b
Debt equity ratio
0.01
0.01
0.01
0.01
Operating profit margin
9.01%
6.73%
9.12%
7.01%
c
Net profit margin
6.70%
4.18%
6.75%
4.37%
d
Return on net worth
3.80%
2.21%
3.81%
2.30%
e
Basic EPS (`)
8.40
4.73
8.46
4.94
f
Notes: Explanation for change in the ratio by more than 25%
a)	
Higher earning and repayment of borrowings during current year.
b)	
Increase in current ratio due to increase in cash generation from business operation and reduction in borrowings.
c) 	
Higher operating profit during the current year with higher revenue.
d)	
Higher net profit after tax during the current year with higher revenue.
e)	
Higher net profit after tax during the current year with improved operating leverage.
f)	
Increase in Basic EPS is due to higher net profit.
The Company has duly re-crafted its culture codes as 
deemed fit to create a safe, productive, diverse, inclusive 
and optimistic work environment. The Company conducts 
several learning and development programmes to 
build a strong team. HR policies are designed to ensure 
that employee goals are aligned with business goals. 
The Company follows a merit-based culture awarding 
and recognising talent without any biases. This motivates 
the employees to strive to achieve greater goals creating 
sustainable value for all stakeholders. Teamwork is duly 
recognised in the organisation. With a view to improve 
efficiency and responsibility, the Company remains 
committed to strengthen its talent pool.
OUTLOOK
The Company is undergoing a transformative journey, 
stepping up its growth, capabilities, innovation, digitisation, 
and market presence to deliver meaningful impact. 
Our commitment to innovation is reflected in our product 
offerings, which are gaining strong traction in the market. 
As we look ahead, we remain focussed on driving 
sustainable and profitable growth.
We will continue to invest in expanding market penetration, 
enhancing innovations, improving customer experience, 
digitising our operations, and achieving operational 
efficiencies. These efforts are designed to ensure 
sustainable growth and deliver long-term value to our 
customers and stakeholders.
With the industries we operate in such as water purifiers, 
vacuum cleaners, and air purifiers on a double-digit 
growth trajectory, Eureka Forbes is strategically positioned 
to be one of the leading beneficiaries of this expansion. 
Our diversified product portfolio and cutting-edge innovative 
strategies put us in a prime position to capitalise on the 
growing market opportunities. Our focus on innovation will 
continue to drive product development, ensuring we meet 
the evolving needs of consumers and stay ahead of market 
trends. Our transformation strategy has repositioned the 
Company in driving sustained and profitable growth.
AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
During the year, the Company won the following awards:
1.	
ET’s awards spotlight outstanding innovations that 
significantly impact markets and society. Eureka Forbes 
as one of the best organisations in Innovation 2024.
2.	
Eureka Forbes Limited - Dehradun Plant was 
honoured with the prestigious Safety Award in the 
Large Enterprise (Consumer Durables) category by 
the Global Safety Summit, held in Uttarakhand on 
December 23, 2023.
3.	
Eureka Forbes Limited received the ‘Safety Excellence 
of the Year – 25’ award at the 5th International 
Sustainability Conference on HSFEA, organised 
by the Sustainability Cluster, UPES Dehradun, on 
April 09, 2025.
4.	
Safety award in the “large Enterprises Electrical 
Consumer 
Durable 
Sector” 
Uttarakhand 
by 
Global Safety Summit.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
Statements forming part of the Management Discussion 
and Analysis Report covered in this Report may be 
forward-looking within the meaning of applicable securities 
laws and regulations. Actual results may differ materially 
from those expressed in the statement. Important factors 
that could influence the Company’s operations include 
demand and supply conditions, changes in government 
regulations, exchange rates, tax laws, monsoons, natural 
hazards, national and global economic developments 
and other factors.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company has devised an extensive risk management 
system safeguarding the interests of all stakeholders. 
The risk management system helps to identify, assess 
and undertake appropriate measures to insulate the 
organisation from predictable internal and external risks. 
The Risk Management framework covers various business 
aspects like all essential operations, functional areas 
and business segments. The Company has adopted a 
bottoms-up approach for effectively monitoring various 
risks and initiating timely response, ensuring the business 
is insulated from the adverse impact with little or no loss 
to earnings. The risk management framework adopts 
a flexible approach to accommodate the ever-evolving 
business environment.
For more details, please refer to the Risk Management 
section of the Integrated Annual Report.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND ADEQUACY
The Internal Financial Controls (IFC) have been designed 
according to Section 134(5)(e) of the Companies Act, 2013 
(Act) keeping in mind the size and complexity of business 
operations. The internal controls enable the Company to 
safeguard its assets, prevent frauds and errors, enhance 
business efficiency, and comply with applicable rules and 
regulations. Systematic maintenance of accounting records 
aids in organising business operations. The internal controls 
confer to all aforementioned IFC elements in best capacity.
HUMAN RESOURCES
Human Capital has been an integral part of EFL’s 
transformational journey and business growth. The Company 
has been successfully able to hire fresh capabilities where 
required and also to retain strong in-house talent. This is the 
result of providing a growth-oriented work culture wherein 
EuroChamps experience great sense of ownership.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
86
87
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Board’s Report
Dear Member,
Your Directors are pleased to present to you the report on the business and operations of your Company along with 
the Audited Financial Statements, both Standalone and Consolidated of the Company, for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025.
1.	
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
(` In Lakhs)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
Financial  
Year ended  
March 31, 2025
Financial  
Year ended  
March 31, 2024
Financial  
Year ended  
March 31, 2025
Financial  
Year ended  
March 31, 2024
Revenue 
and 
other 
Income 
(Total 
Revenue)
2,45,016.44
2,19,775.57
2,45,147.89
2,19,802.97
Earnings 
before 
Finance 
cost, 
Depreciation, Other income, Share of 
Net Profit of Joint ventures and before 
Exceptional Items & Tax
26,289.03
19,186.56
26,558.72
19,864.47
Profit after Finance Cost, Depreciation, 
Share of Net Profit of Joint ventures and 
before Exceptional Items & Tax
21,379.25
13,755.24
21,652.09
14,362.27
Profit before Tax
21,886.94
12,240.34
22,069.78
12,847.37
Tax Expense
5,558.29
3,083.49
5,628.31
3,282.40
Profit for the year
16,328.65
9,156.85
16,441.47
9,564.97
Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss)
(343.41)
(235.88)
(344.96)
(212.70)
Total Comprehensive Income
15,985.24
8,920.97
16,096.51
9,352.27
Earnings Per Share - Basic (`)
8.40
4.73
8.46
4.94
Earnings Per Share - Diluted (`)
8.40*
4.72*
8.46*
4.93*
	
*Impact due to grant of Stock Options has been considered while arriving at the diluted EPS.
	
The 
Standalone 
and 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements of your Company for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025 have been prepared 
in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards 
(IND-AS), the relevant provisions of Sections 129 
and 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) 
and Regulation 33 of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing 
Regulations/SEBI LODR”) which have been reviewed 
by the Statutory Auditors.
2.	
OVERVIEW 
OF 
COMPANY’S 
FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE
	
•	
Standalone income, comprising Revenue from 
Operations and other income, for the year was 
` 2,45,016.44 Lakhs, 11.48% higher compared to 
` 2,19,775.57 Lakhs in Financial Year 2023-24.
	
•	
Total Standalone Revenue from Operations for the 
year increased to ` 2,43,606.24 Lakhs vis-à-vis 
` 2,18,922.63 Lakhs in Financial Year 2023-24.
	
•	
Standalone Profit before Tax for the year was 
` 21,886.94 Lakhs vis-à-vis ` 12,240.34 Lakhs in 
Financial Year 2023-24.
	
•	
Standalone Profit after Tax for the year was 
` 16,328.65 Lakhs compared to ` 9,156.85 Lakhs 
in Financial Year 2023-24.
	
•	
Consolidated income, comprising Revenue from 
Operations and other income, for the year was 
` 2,45,147.89 Lakhs, 11.53% higher compared to 
` 2,19,802.97 Lakhs in Financial Year 2023-24.
	
•	
Total Consolidated Revenue from Operations for 
the year increased to ` 2,43,691.43 Lakhs vis-à-
vis ` 2,18,925.02 in Financial Year 2023-24.
	
•	
Consolidated Profit before Tax for the year was 
` 22,069.78 Lakhs vis-à-vis ` 12,847.37 Lakhs in 
Financial Year 2023-24.
	
•	
Consolidated Profit after Tax for the year was 
` 16,441.47 Lakhs compared to ` 9,564.97 Lakhs 
in Financial Year 2023-24.
3.	
CHANGE IN THE NATURE OF BUSINESS
	
During the year under review, there was no change in 
the nature of business of the Company.
4.	
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
REPORT
	
Management Discussion & Analysis Report as 
stipulated under the SEBI Listing Regulations is 
presented in a separate section forming part of this 
Integrated Annual Report. It provides details about 
the overall industry structure and development, 
opportunities and threats, performance of various 
products, outlook, risks and concerns.
5.	
DIVIDEND
	
Your Directors propose to retain the entire Profit After 
Tax (PAT) in the Statement of Profit and Loss and do 
not recommend any dividend. The balance in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss account remains available 
for distribution in future.
	
Pursuant to Regulation 43A of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, your Company has approved and 
adopted a Dividend Distribution Policy. The Dividend 
Distribution Policy of the Company is available at: 
www.eurekaforbes.com/media/investor-relations/
Dividend_Distribution_Policy.pdf.
6.	
TRANSFER TO RESERVES
	
Your Company does not propose to transfer any 
amount to the General Reserve.
7.	
UNCLAIMED 
DIVIDEND 
TO 
INVESTOR 
EDUCATION 
AND 
PROTECTION 
FUND 
(“IEPF”)
	
As per the provisions of the Act read with the IEPF 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) 
Rules, 2016, all unpaid or unclaimed dividends are 
required to be transferred to the IEPF Authority, after 
completion of seven years.
	
Further, according to the said Rules, the shares on 
which dividend has not been paid or claimed by the 
shareholders for seven consecutive years or more shall 
also be transferred to the IEPF Authority. Although the 
Company has never declared a dividend, there are 
shares in the IEPF due to the Composite Scheme 
of Arrangement.
	
Members whose shares are transferred to IEPF as 
stated above, can still claim the shares from the IEPF 
Authority by submitting an application in Web Form 
No. IEPF-5 available on www.iepf.gov.in. The voting 
rights on shares transferred to the IEPF Authority shall 
remain frozen until the rightful owner claims the shares. 
The shares held in such Demat account shall not be 
transferred or dealt with in any manner whatsoever 
except for the purpose of transferring the shares 
back to the claimant as and when he approaches the 
Authority. All benefits except rights issue accruing on 
such shares e.g. bonus shares, split, consolidation, 
fraction shares etc., shall also be credited to such 
Demat account. Any further dividend received on such 
shares shall be credited to the IEPF Fund.
	
As part of a proactive initiative to minimise the number 
of shares currently held with the IEPF Authority, your 
Company has undertaken comprehensive outreach 
efforts to shareholders whose shares have been 
transferred to the IEPF Authority. This communication 
initiative includes sending notices and detailed 
instructions to the concerned shareholders, outlining 
the specific steps and documentation required to 
successfully claim their shares.
8.	
MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENTS, IF 
ANY, AFFECTING THE FINANCIAL POSITION 
OF THE COMPANY OCCURRED DURING THE 
FINANCIAL YEAR AND BETWEEN THE END 
OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR TO WHICH THIS 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RELATE AND THE 
DATE OF THE REPORT
	
There were no material changes and commitments 
affecting the financial position of the Company, that 
have occurred during the Financial Year and between 
the end of the Financial Year to which the Financial 
Statements relate and the date of this report.
9.	
DETAILS OF SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL 
ORDERS PASSED BY THE REGULATORS OR 
COURTS OR TRIBUNALS IMPACTING THE 
GOING CONCERN STATUS AND COMPANY’S 
OPERATIONS IN FUTURE
	
No significant and material orders passed by the 
regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going 
concern status and Company’s operations in future.
10.	 SUBSIDIARY, 
JOINT 
VENTURE 
AND 
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES
	
Your Company has three (03) Direct Subsidiaries and 
one (01) Step-down Subsidiary.
	
The Board of Directors in its meeting dated August 08, 
2023 have subject to applicable regulatory and other 
approvals provided its consent for closure of Euro 
Forbes Limited, Dubai (subsidiary of the Company) 
and Forbes Lux FZE Dubai (Wholly Owned Subsidiary 
of Euro Forbes Limited) by way of voluntary liquidation.
	
The details of the Subsidiaries are as follows:
	
a.	
Forbes Aquatech Limited
	
	
Forbes 
Aquatech 
Limited 
having 
CIN: 
U28122KA2003PLC032492 is a Subsidiary of 
the Company incorporated on September 03, 
2003 to manufacture, buy, sell, exchange, alter, 
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
88
89
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
improve, market, distribute, import or export or 
otherwise deal in all kinds of water filters, water 
purifiers, purifiers of all types and kinds, and 
allied products and also to supply, undertake 
and execute any works involving or relating 
to water purifiers, water filters, other products 
for purification of water or any other liquids or 
material of all kinds.
	
	
Total Revenue booked for the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2025 was ` 585.44 Lakhs 
(including ` 10.03 Lakhs as other income). 
The Profit After Tax for the current year was 
` 12.47 Lakhs as compared to a profit of ` 9.69 
Lakhs in the previous year.
 
b. 
Infinite Water Solutions Private Limited
	
	
Infinite Water Solutions Private Limited having CIN: 
U74999MH2008PTC180918 is a Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary of the Company incorporated on 
April 07, 2008 to manufacture, buy, sell, exchange, 
alter, improve, market, distribute, import or export 
or otherwise deal in all kinds of water filters, water 
purifiers or other water purification systems of all 
types and kinds and allied products, including 
manufacturing and processing of home reverse 
osmosis membrane elements and other related 
water treatment products and also to supply, 
undertake and execute any works involving or 
relating to water purifiers, water filters, other 
products for purification of water or other liquids 
or material of all kinds.
	
	
Total Revenue booked for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025 was ` 3,798.85 Lakhs (including 
` 18.41 Lakhs as other income). The Profit After 
Tax for the current year was ` 172.36 Lakhs 
as compared to a profit of ` 559.31 Lakhs in 
the previous year.
	
c.	
Euro Forbes Limited
	
	
Euro Forbes Limited having registration number 
145214 is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary  of the 
Company, incorporated on April 12, 2011 in 
Dubai to carry out general trading and investment 
holding worldwide and to invest in Companies/ 
Properties, joint Business Ventures with overseas 
entities and Investment in Overseas Entities and 
also Investment in properties of Dubai World, 
Nakeel, Emaar, Dubai Holdings and/or any other 
approved projects by Jebel Ali Free Zone.
	
	
Total Revenue booked for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2025, was ` 3.50 Lakhs, entirely 
comprising other income. Net Loss After Tax was 
` 1.65 Lakhs as compared to a profit of ` 0.39 
Lakhs in the previous year.
	
d.	
Forbes Lux FZE Dubai
	
	
Forbes Lux FZE having registration number 
147235, is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Euro 
Forbes Limited, Dubai and is a step-down 
Subsidiary of the Company incorporated on 
June 26, 2011 in Dubai to trade in Cookers & Cook 
Stoves Trading, Refrigerators, Washing Machines 
& Household Electrical Appliances, Trading Water 
Heaters, Filters & Purifications Devices, Electrical 
& Electronic Appliances Spare Parts.
	
	
Total Revenue booked for the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2025, was ` 50.74 Lakhs, 
entirely comprising of other income. Net Loss 
After Tax was ` 56.46 Lakhs as compared to a 
loss of ` 123.23 Lakhs in the previous year.
	
	
The Company does not have any material 
subsidiary. The policy for determining material 
subsidiaries of the Company is available at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/cms/assets/prod/Policy_
on_Material_Subsidiary.pdf.
	
	
Pursuant to Section 136 of the Act, the Audited 
Financial Statements including the Consolidated 
Financial Statements and related information 
of the Company and Audited Annual Accounts 
of each of its Subsidiaries are placed on the 
website of the Company at: www.eurekaforbes.
com/investor-relations/financial-information/
subsidiaries-eurekaforbes-ltd/.
	
	
Further, your Company does not have any 
Associate 
or 
Joint 
Ventures. 
Further, 
no 
Companies became or ceased to be subsidiaries, 
Joint Ventures or Associate Companies of the 
Company during the year under review.
	
	
Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Act, a statement 
containing the salient features of the Financial 
Statements of the Company’s subsidiaries are 
set out in the Form AOC-1, attached herewith 
as Annexure – 1.
11.	 EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLAN 2022
	
Your Company had by way of Postal Ballot passed a 
special resolution on November 10, 2022, to approve 
the Employee Stock Option Plan 2022 (“ESOP 2022”) 
in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021.
	
ESOP 2022 was conceptualised with a view to motivate 
the key workforce seeking their contribution to the 
corporate growth, to create an employee ownership 
culture, to attract, retain, incentivise and motivate its 
eligible employees for ensuring sustained growth.
	
Under the above plan, the Company can grant 
up to 1,75,21,597 (One Crore Seventy-Five Lakhs 
Twenty-One Thousand Five Hundred and Ninety-Seven) 
options exercisable into not more than 1,75,21,597 
(One Crore Seventy-Five Lakhs Twenty-One Thousand 
Five Hundred and Ninety-Seven) fully paid-up equity 
shares of ` 10/- (Rupees Ten Only) each.
	
During the year under review, 8,96,237 (Eight Lakhs 
Ninety-Six Thousand Two Hundred and Thirty-Seven) 
options were granted to the eligible employees 
under ESOP 2022.
	
The disclosures required to be made under SEBI 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 are available at www.eurekaforbes.
com/media/investor-relations/ESOP-Disclosure/
FY-2024-25.pdf.
12.	 PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES 
OR INVESTMENTS
	
Your Company has not given any loan or provided 
any security or guarantee which are covered under 
the provisions of Section 186 of the Act during the 
year under review.
	
The details of investments made by the Company 
under Section 186 of the Act forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report and are given in the Notes to 
the Standalone Financial Statements for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025.
13.	 BOARD 
OF 
DIRECTORS 
AND 
KEY 
MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
	
a.	
Board of Directors
	
	
There was no change in the composition of the 
Board of Directors during the year under review.
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation
1
Mr. Arvind Uppal
Chairman, Non-
Executive, Non-
Independent 
Director
2
Mr. Pratik Pota
Managing Director 
& CEO
3
Mr. Sahil Dalal
Non-Executive, 
Non-Independent 
Director
4
Mr. Vinod Rao
Independent 
Director
5
Mrs. Gurveen 
Singh
Independent 
Director
6
Mr. Homi Katgara
Independent 
Director
7
Mr. Shashank 
Samant
Independent 
Director
	
	
None of the Directors are disqualified from being 
appointed as the Director of the Company in 
terms of Section 164 of the Act. During the year 
under review, the Non-Executive Directors of 
the Company had no pecuniary relationship or 
transactions with the Company, other than sitting 
fees, commission, perquisites and reimbursement 
of expenses incurred by them for the purpose 
of attending meetings of the Board/Committees 
of the Company.
	
	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 
152 of the Act and the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Mr. Arvind Uppal (DIN: 00104992) is 
liable to retire by rotation at the Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”) and being eligible offers himself 
for re-appointment. The Board recommends 
re-appointment of Mr. Arvind Uppal for the 
consideration of the Members of the Company 
at the forthcoming AGM. The relevant details 
as required under Secretarial Standard – 2 
and Regulation 36 of SEBI Listing Regulations 
including profile of Mr. Arvind Uppal is included 
separately in the Notice of AGM and Report 
on Corporate Governance, forming part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
	
b.	
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
	
	
Following were the KMPs as on March 31, 2025 
and as on date pursuant to Sections 2(51) 
and 203 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014:
Sr. 
No.
Name of KMP
Designation
1
Mr. Pratik Pota
Managing Director 
& CEO
2
Mr. Gaurav 
Khandelwal
Chief Financial 
Officer
3
Ms. Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary 
& Compliance 
Officer
14.	 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
	
a.	
Declaration by Independent Director
	
	
The Board confirms that based on the written 
affirmations from each Independent Director, 
all Independent Directors fulfil the conditions 
specified for independence as stipulated in 
Regulation 16 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
as amended, read with Section 149(6) of the 
Act along with rules framed thereunder and are 
independent of the Management. Further, the 
Independent Directors have also registered their 
names in the Databank maintained by the Indian 
Institute of Corporate Affairs (“IICA”), Manesar, 
Gurgaon as mandated in the Companies 
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
90
91
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors), 
Rules, 2014. None of the Independent Directors 
have any other material pecuniary relationship or 
transaction with the Company, its Promoters, or 
Directors, or Senior Management which, in their 
judgement, would affect their independence. 
In terms of Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, they have confirmed that they are 
not aware of any circumstance or situation which 
exists or may be reasonably anticipated that could 
impair or impact their ability to discharge their 
duties with an objective independent judgement 
and without any external influence. Further, none 
of the Directors are related to each other.
	
b.	
Number of Meetings of Board
	
	
During the year under review, 05 (Five) Meetings 
of the Board of Directors were held. The details of 
such meetings held and attended by the Directors 
during the Financial Year 2024-25 are given in the 
Report on Corporate Governance forming part of 
this Integrated Annual Report.
	
	
The maximum interval between any two meetings 
did not exceed 120 days, as prescribed by the 
Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
 
c. 
Annual Evaluation of the Board
	
	
Evaluation of the Board, Directors, Committees 
etc. are done on an annual basis. The process 
is led by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee with specific focus on the performance 
vis-à-vis 
the 
plans, 
meeting 
challenging 
situations, performing leadership role within, 
effective functioning of the Board, time spent by 
each of the Directors, accomplishment of specific 
responsibilities and expertise, conflict of interest, 
integrity of Director, active participation and 
contribution during discussions.
	
	
The details of the Annual Board Evaluation 
process for Directors form a part of the are given 
in the Report on Corporate Governance forming 
part of this Integrated Annual Report.
	
d.	
Policy 
on 
Directors’ 
Appointment 
and 
Remuneration and Other Details
	
	
Your 
Company 
has 
a 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration Policy for Directors and Senior 
Managerial 
Personnel 
in 
compliance 
with 
the provisions of Section 178 of the Act and 
Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing Regulations as 
approved by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and the Board.
	
	
The policy is available on the website of 
the 
Company 
at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/
media/investor-relations/Nomination-and-
Remuneration_Policy.pdf.
	
e.	
Familiarisation Programme for Independent 
Directors
	
	
Pursuant to Regulation 25(7) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, your Company has put in 
place a system to familiarise its Independent 
Directors with their roles, responsibilities in the 
Company, nature of the industry, business model, 
processes, policies and the technology and the 
risk management systems of the Company, the 
operational and financial performance of the 
Company and significant developments so as 
to enable them to take well informed decisions 
in timely manner.
	
	
During the Financial Year 2024-25, familiarisation 
programmes 
were 
conducted 
and 
the 
Independent Directors were updated from time to 
time on continuous basis on Company’s business 
model, risks & opportunities, significant changes 
in the regulations and duties and responsibilities 
of Independent Directors under the Act and SEBI 
Listing Regulations and other matters.
	
	
The 
policy 
on 
Company’s 
familiarisation 
programme 
for 
Independent 
Directors 
is 
available at www.eurekaforbes.com/cms/assets/
prod/Familiarization_Programme_2024_25_
Final_file.pdf.
	
f.	
Opinion of the Board with regard to integrity, 
expertise and experience (including the 
proficiency) of the Independent Directors 
appointed during the year
	
	
The Board after taking the Independent Directors’ 
respective declarations/disclosures on record 
and acknowledging the veracity of the same, is 
of the opinion that the Independent Directors of 
the Company possess requisite qualification(s), 
experience, expertise, hold highest standards of 
integrity and are independent of the management 
of the Company.
15.	 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
	
The Committee(s) constituted by the Board focus on 
specific areas and take informed decisions within the 
framework of delegated authority, and make specific 
recommendations to the Board on matters within their 
areas or purview. The decisions and recommendations 
of the Committees and minutes of meetings of 
Committees are placed before the Board for information 
and/or for approval, as required. During the year 
under review, all recommendations received from its 
Committees were accepted by the Board.
	
As on March 31, 2025, the Board has the following 
Statutory Committees:
	
•	
Audit Committee
	
•	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
	
•	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
	
•	
Risk Management Committee
	
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
	
The details of the Board and its Committees along 
with their terms of reference, composition, meetings 
held during the year are given under Report 
on Corporate Governance forming part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
16.	 DEPOSITS
	
Your Company has not accepted any public deposit 
and as such no amount on account of principal or 
interest on public deposit under Section 73 and 74 of 
the Act, read together with the Companies (Acceptance 
of Deposits) Rules, 2014 was outstanding as on the 
date of the Balance Sheet.
17.	 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY
	
Your Company has implemented a comprehensive 
risk management system that covers all essential 
operations, and functional areas. The Company has 
put in place a comprehensive risk management 
framework to identify, assess and mitigate business 
risks with the objective of safeguarding the interests 
of its stakeholders. The Company’s risk management 
framework is designed to ensure that risks are 
recognised and dealt with from the top down to 
the bottom up in a timely and appropriate manner. 
It is also kept flexible to accommodate shifting 
business requirements.
	
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(n) of the Act and Regulation 
21 of SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board has 
constituted a Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) 
to frame, implement and monitor the risk management 
plan of the Company. The RMC is responsible for 
reviewing the risk management plan and ensuring 
its effectiveness. The Audit Committee has additional 
oversight in the area of financial risks and controls.
	
Broadly, key risks identified by the Management covers 
risk related to Market Risk, Consumer/Reputation Risk, 
Supply Chain Risk, Information/Cyber Security Risk 
People Risk and Product/Environment Risk.
	
In line with the Provisions of law, during the year under 
review, the Company has reviewed its Enterprise Risk 
Management Policy.
	
Further details on the Risk Management activities, 
including the implementation of risk management policy, 
key risks identified and their mitigations are covered in 
Management Discussion and Analysis Report, which 
forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
18.	 INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL
	
Your Company has a defined system of internal controls 
for financial reporting of transactions and compliance 
with relevant laws and regulations commensurate with 
its size and nature of business. The Company also 
has a well-defined process for ongoing management 
reporting and periodic review of businesses.
	
There is an active internal audit function carried out 
entirely by M/s. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) an 
external Chartered Accountant firm. As part of the 
efforts to evaluate the effectiveness of internal control 
systems, the internal audit department reviews the 
control measures periodically and recommends 
improvements, wherever appropriate.
	
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the audit 
findings as well as the adequacy and effectiveness 
of the internal control measures. Based on their 
recommendations, the Company has implemented 
a number of control measures both in operational 
and accounting related areas, apart from security 
related measures.
19.	 CORPORATE 
SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY 
(“CSR”)
	
Your Company is dedicated to add value to every 
individual in the country through its business by 
integrating societal, economic, environmental and 
sustainable commitments. Business practices of the 
Company shall contribute to make the world a better 
place. The main CSR objective of the Company is to 
promote healthcare, sanitation, hygiene including 
preventive healthcare and making available safe 
drinking water.
	
Disclosures as required under Rule 9 of the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014 are annexed to this Report as Annexure 
– 2. The CSR Policy of the Company is available at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/cms/assets/prod/Charter_of_
CSR_Committee_And_Policy.pdf.
20.	 AUDITORS AND AUDITORS’ REPORT
	
a.	
Statutory Auditors:
	
	
In terms of provisions of Section 139 of the 
Act and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014, M/s. Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP, 
Chartered 
Accountants, 
(Firm 
Registration 
No. 117366W/W-100018) were appointed as 
the Statutory Auditors of the Company at the 
13th Annual General Meeting held on December 22, 
2022 to hold office for a term of five consecutive 
Financial Years from the conclusion of the 
13th Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of 
the 18th Annual General Meeting of the Company.
	
	
The Report given by the Statutory Auditors on the 
Financial Statements of the Company is part of 
this Integrated Annual Report. There has been 
no qualification, reservation, adverse remark 
or disclaimer given by the Statutory Auditors in 
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
92
93
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
their Report. During the year under review, the 
Statutory Auditors have not reported any fraud 
under Section 143(12) of the Act.
	
b.	
Secretarial Auditors:
	
	
The Board at its Meeting held on May 28, 2024, 
appointed M/s. Mihen Halani & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries (Peer Review 
Certificate No. 6925/2025) as Secretarial Auditors 
of the Company to conduct the Secretarial Audit 
for Financial Year 2024-25.
	
	
The Secretarial Audit Report is annexed herewith 
as Annexure - 3 to this Report.
	
	
The said report does not contain any observation 
or qualification requiring explanation or comments 
from the Board under Section 134(3) of the Act.
	
	
During the year under review, the Secretarial 
Auditor has not reported any fraud under Section 
143(12) of the Act.
	
	
Further, the subsidiaries of the Company are not 
material subsidiaries. Therefore, the provisions 
regarding the Secretarial Audit as mentioned in 
Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations as 
amended, do not apply to such subsidiaries.
	
	
In accordance with the amended Regulation 
24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, and 
subject to the approval of shareholders at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting scheduled 
for September 19, 2025, M/s. Mihen Halani 
& Associates, Practicing Company Secretary 
(Peer Review Certificate No. 6925/2025), has 
been appointed as the Secretarial Auditor of the 
Company for a period of 5 years from Financial 
Year 2025–26 to Financial Year 2029–30.
	
	
M/s. Mihen Halani & Associates has confirmed 
that it meets the eligibility criteria and is not 
disqualified from being appointed as Secretarial 
Auditor of the Company.
	
c.	
Cost Auditors:
	
	
In terms of provisions of Section 148(1) of the 
Act read with the Companies (Cost Records and 
Audit) Rules, 2014, your Company is required to 
maintain cost accounting records and is required 
to get its cost accounts audited.
	
	
M/s. J. Chandra & Associates, Cost Accountants, 
(Firm Registration Number: 000384), have 
carried out the Cost audit of the Company for the 
Financial Year 2024-25.
	
	
During the year under review, the Cost Auditor 
has not reported any fraud under Section 
143(12) of the Act.
21.	 SHARE CAPITAL
	
During the year under review, there was no change in 
the Capital Structure of the Company.
	
a.	
Buy Back of Securities: The Company has 
not bought back any of its securities during the 
year under review.
	
b.	
Sweat Equity: The Company has not issued any 
Sweat Equity Shares during the year under review.
	
c.	
Bonus Shares: No Bonus Shares were issued 
during the year under review.
	
d.	
Shares with differential rights: The Company 
has not issued any equity shares with differential 
rights as to dividend, voting or otherwise during 
the year under review.
	
e.	
During the year under review, the Company 
has not made any provision of money for the 
purchase of, or subscription for, shares in your 
Company or its holding Company, to be held 
by or for the benefit of the employees of the 
Company and hence the disclosure as required 
under Rule 16(4) of Companies (Share Capital 
and Debentures) Rules, 2014 is not required.
22.	 DISCLOSURES 
UNDER 
SEXUAL 
HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE 
(PREVENTION, PROHIBITION & REDRESSAL) 
ACT, 2013
	
Your Company has zero tolerance for sexual 
harassment at workplace and has formulated a 
comprehensive policy on Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal against Sexual Harassment of Women 
at Workplace, which is also in accordance with the 
provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013 (“POSH”). The said policy has been made 
available on the internal portal of the Company.
	
Your Company has constituted an Internal Complaints 
Committee (“ICC”) under the POSH and has complied 
with the provisions relating to the same. All employees 
(permanent, contractual, temporary, trainees) are 
covered under this Policy. The constitution of ICC is as 
per the POSH Act and includes an external member 
who is an independent POSH consultant with relevant 
experience. The Company has an e-learning tool on 
POSH for all regular employees and also for induction 
of new employees.
	
During the year, the Company has not received any 
complaint under the Policy.
	
a)	
Number of complaints of sexual harassment 
received in the year – NIL
	
b)	
Number of complaints disposed-off during 
the year – NIL
	
c)	
Number of cases pending for more than 
90 days – NIL
23.	 COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF 
MATERNITY BENEFIT ACT, 1961
	
Your Company’s maternity policy is as per the provisions 
of Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 and amendments to it 
under the Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Bill, 2016. 
All permanent female employees are granted up to 
182 days of full pay Maternity Leave as provided by 
the law, for up to 2 children. The employee should 
have worked in the organisation for a minimum period 
of eighty days in the 12 months immediately preceding 
the date of her expected delivery. Employees who are 
recovering from a miscarriage and adopting mothers 
can also avail maternity leave up to 84 days. In case 
of surrogacy, female employee is eligible for 180 days 
of maternity leave. As part of the Group Mediclaim 
policy for employees, Normal and Caesarean 
delivery expenses are covered up to specified limits 
for expecting mothers. Your Company’s Creche 
reimbursement policy supports female employees 
in taking care of their young children while the 
employee is at work. 
	
Our Paternity leave policy supports new fathers to 
take necessary time off to bond with their baby and 
assist the mother, with flexibility to avail leaves within 6 
months of child birth
24.	 COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
	
Your Company has complied with all the applicable 
provisions of Secretarial Standards on Meetings of 
Board of Directors (SS-1) and Secretarial Standards 
on General Meetings (SS-2) issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India.
25.	 CREDIT RATING
	
During the year under review, CARE Ratings Limited 
upgraded the Company’s Long-Term Bank Facilities 
Rating and Issuer Rating from CARE A+/Stable to 
CARE AA-/Stable. This marks the Company’s second 
consecutive rating upgrade in the Financial Year 
2024-25, reflecting its strong financial performance 
and consistent progress.
	
Additionally, CRISIL Ratings Limited assigned a 
Corporate Credit Rating of AA-/Stable to the Company 
for the first time, further endorsing its creditworthiness 
and financial stability.
	
The details of Credit Rating are available on the 
website of the Company at www.eurekaforbes.com/
investor-relations/shareholders-information/credit-rating.
26.	 CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS & OUTGO
	
The information in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 134(3)(m) of the Act regarding conservation of 
energy, technology absorption, and foreign exchange 
earnings & outgo is attached herewith as Annexure – 4 
and forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
27.	 PARTICULARS 
OF 
CONTRACTS 
OR 
ARRANGEMENTS WITH RELATED PARTIES
	
In accordance with the requirements of the Act and 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the Policy on Materiality of 
Related Party Transactions and dealing with Related 
Party Transactions as approved by the Board is 
uploaded on the Company’s website at the web link 
www.eurekaforbes.com/cms/assets/prod/Policy_on_
Materiality_of_Related_Party_Transactions_and_on_
dealing_with_Related_Party_Transactions.pdf.
	
This policy deals with the review and approval of 
Related Party Transactions. The Board of Directors 
of the Company have approved the criteria to grant 
omnibus approval by the Audit Committee within 
the overall framework of the policy on related party 
transactions. Prior omnibus approval is obtained 
for related party transactions which are of repetitive 
nature and entered in the ordinary course of business 
and at arm’s length. A detailed statement of all RPTs is 
placed before the Audit Committee every quarter for 
their review and noting.
	
All Related Party Transactions during the Financial Year 
2024-25, were reviewed and approved by the Audit 
Committee and were on arm’s length basis and in the 
ordinary course of business. There were no material 
transactions with Related Parties during the year as per 
the last Audited Financial Statements. Accordingly, the 
disclosure of transactions entered into with Related 
Parties pursuant to the provisions of Section 188(1) of 
the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts), 
Rules 2014 in Form AOC-2 is not applicable.
	
All Related Party Transactions entered during the year 
under review are disclosed in the notes to the Financial 
Statements. Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 
23(9) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company 
has filed half yearly reports to the Stock Exchanges, 
for the related party transactions within the prescribed 
statutory timelines.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
94
95
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
28.	 DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
	
Pursuant to Section 134 of the Act, the Board of 
Directors, to the best of their knowledge and belief 
and according to the information and explanations 
obtained by them confirm that:
	
a.	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards have been 
followed along with proper explanation relating to 
material departures;
	
b.	
they have selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so 
as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company at the end of the Financial Year 
and of the profit of the Company for that period;
	
c.	
they have taken proper and sufficient care for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
	
d.	
they have prepared the annual accounts on a 
going concern basis;
	
e.	
they have laid down internal financial controls to 
be followed by the Company and such internal 
financial controls are adequate and operating 
effectively; and
	
f.	
they have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable 
laws and that such systems are adequate and 
operating effectively.
29.	 HUMAN 
RESOURCE 
DEVELOPMENT 
& 
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
	
The Human Resources (HR) Function has closely 
partnered with business to accelerate business 
growth. The HR team has worked on creating 
understanding and alignment to the Company goals, 
created a platform for employees to share their 
feedback on company culture and started embedding 
the new Eureka Forbes behaviours through various 
Reward and Recognition programmes. In the phase of 
transformation, the HR function is responsible to hire 
the right talent, develop employees in terms of skills 
and raise organisation performance through the right 
set of long term and short-term incentive programmes.
30.	 ANNUAL RETURN
	
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(a) and Section 92 of the 
Act and Rule 12 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014, the draft Annual 
Return of the Company is available on the website 
at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/media/investor-relations/
Eureka-Forbes-Limited-AnnualReturn-FY-2024-25.pdf.
31.	 PARTICULARS 
OF 
EMPLOYEES 
AND 
REMUNERATION
	
Disclosures on the remuneration of Directors, KMPs 
and employees as per Section 197(12) of the Act read 
with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
is given in Annexure – 5 to this Report. Your Directors 
affirm that the remuneration paid to Directors, KMPs 
and employees is as per the remuneration policy 
of the Company.
	
Details of employee remuneration as required under 
Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) 
of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is provided 
in a separate annexure forming part of this report. 
Further, the report and the accounts are being sent 
to the Members excluding the aforesaid annexure. 
In terms of Section 136 of the Act, the said annexure 
is open for inspection and any Member interested 
in obtaining a copy of the same may write to the 
Company Secretary.
32.	 WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY
	
In compliance with Section 177(9) of the Act and 
Regulation 22 of SEBI Listing Regulations, your 
Company has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy. 
The Audit Committee oversees the functioning of 
this policy. The vigil mechanism provides adequate 
safeguards against victimisation of individuals who 
report concerns under the policy and allows for direct 
access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
During the year, no person was denied access 
to the Chairman.
	
The Company’s Whistle Blower Policy aims to 
provide the appropriate platform and protection 
for Whistle Blowers to report instances of fraud 
and mismanagement, if any, to promote reporting 
of any unethical or improper practice or violation 
of the Company’s Code of Conduct or complaints 
regarding accounting, auditing, internal controls or 
suspected incidents of violation of applicable laws 
and regulations including the Company’s Code of 
Conduct or Code for Prevention of Insider Trading 
and Policy of Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Public 
Sensitive Information.
	
The Whistle Blower Policy provides a mechanism for 
employees of the Company to approach the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee of the Company for redressal. 
Details of the Whistle Blower policy are covered in the 
Report on Corporate Governance forming part of this 
Integrated Annual Report and are made available on 
the Company’s website at: www.eurekaforbes.com/
media/pdf/whistle-blower-policy-v2.pdf.
33.	 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
	
Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a separate section 
on Corporate Governance practices followed by the 
Company, together with a Certificate from Practicing 
Company Secretary confirming compliance with 
conditions of Corporate Governance, as required 
under SEBI Listing Regulations forms an integral part 
of this Report and is annexed herewith as Annexure - 6.
34.	 BUSINESS 
RESPONSIBILITY 
AND 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (BRSR)
	
Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, a report on sustainability in the format 
of Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(BRSR), aligned with the Nine (9) principles of 
the National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
Government of India, forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report as Annexure - 7.
35.	 DETAILS OF APPLICATIONS, APPROVED 
OR PENDING UNDER INSOLVENCY AND 
BANKRUPTCY CODE, 2016
	
Your Company, in the capacity of Creditor, has not filed 
any applications with National Company Law Tribunal 
under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 
during the Financial Year 2024-25 for recovery of any 
outstanding loans against any customer. Further, no 
application has been filed with National Company Law 
Tribunal under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 
2016 against your Company for recovery of any debt 
during the year under review.
36.	 DIFFERENCE IN VALUATION DONE FOR 
ONE-TIME SETTLEMENT AND VALUATION 
DONE WHILE TAKING A LOAN FROM BANKS 
OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
	
During the year under review, your Company has not 
entered into one-time settlement with any Bank or 
financial institution.
37.	 INTEGRATED REPORTING
	
Your Company has diligently prepared an Integrated 
Annual Report, encompassing a comprehensive set 
of financial and non-financial information. This report 
aims to provide Members with meaningful insights to 
facilitate informed decision-making and gain a better 
understanding of the Company’s long-term strategy 
and value creation approach. This report covers 
aspects such as organisation’s strategy, governance 
framework, performance, risk management and 
prospects of value creation based on the six forms 
of capitals viz., Financial Capital, Intellectual Capital, 
Manufactured Capital, Human Capital, Natural Capital, 
and Social and Relationship Capital.
38.	 APPRECIATION & ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
	
Your Directors take this opportunity to thank sincerely 
and acknowledge with gratitude, the contribution, 
co-operation and assistance received from customers, 
vendors, dealers, suppliers, investors, business 
associates, bankers, Government authorities and 
other stakeholders for their continued support 
during the year.
	
Further, the Board places on record its deep 
appreciation for the enthusiasm, co-operation, hard 
work, dedication and commitment of the employees at 
all levels. The enthusiasm and unstinting efforts of the 
employees have enabled the Company to remain an 
industry leader.
Place: Gurugram
Date: August 11, 2025
On behalf of the Board of Directors of
Eureka Forbes Limited
Arvind Uppal
Chairman
(DIN: 00104992)
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
96
97
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Annexure – 1
FORM AOC -1
Statement pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013  
related to Subsidiaries/ Associate Companies and Joint Ventures
PART “A”: SUBSIDIARIES
1
Sr No.
1
2
3
4
2
Name of Subsidiary
Forbes 
Aquatech 
Limited
Infinite Water 
Solutions 
Private Limited
Euro Forbes 
Limited, Dubai
Forbes Lux FZE, 
Dubai****
` Lakhs
` Lakhs
US$- 
Lakhs
` Lakhs
US$- 
Lakhs
` Lakhs
3
Date since when subsidiary was 
acquired
01-02-2022
01-02-2022
01-02-2022
01-02-2022
4
Reporting 
Period 
of 
Subsidiary 
concerned, if different from the 
Holding 
Company’s 
reporting 
period.*
31-03-2025
31-03-2025
31-03-2025
31-03-2025
5
Reporting currency and Exchange 
rate as on the last date of the 
relevant Financial Year in the case of 
foreign subsidiaries
-
-
1 US$ = 85.5814
1 US$ = 85.5814
6
Share Capital
56.51
700.00
513.07
34,732.26
444.60
30,173.42
7
Reserves & Surplus**
997.14
2,985.15 (513.05)
(34,730.64) (454.28) (31,001.23)
8
Total Assets ***
1,120.41
4,069.74
0.03
2.71
1.41
120.55
9
Total Liability
66.76
384.58
0.01
1.10
11.08
948.37
10
Investments
-
-
-
-
-
-
11
Turnover
575.41
3,780.44
-
-
-
-
12
Profit Before Taxation
16.86
238.00
(0.02)
(1.65)
(0.66)
(56.46)
13
Provision for Taxation
4.38
65.64
14
Profit After Taxation
12.47
172.36
(0.02)
(1.65)
(0.66)
(56.46)
15
Other Comprehensive Income
(1.01)
(2.19)
-
-
-
-
16
Proposed Dividend
-
-
-
-
-
-
17
% of Shareholding
88.49%
100%
100%
100%
The above numbers are taken from the respective audited financial statements.
* Euro Forbes Limited and Forbes Lux FZE, both under liquidation, follow a January-December reporting period. As no audit was required 
for the year ending December 31, 2024, a special audit was conducted for the period ending March 31, 2025, for India consolidation, 
with the figures in AOC-1 reflecting this audited period.
** Net of Debit balance of Statement of Profit & Loss and Foreign Exchange Transaction Reserve, where applicable.
*** Includes Investment.
****Forbes Lux FZE, Dubai is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Euro Forbes Limited, Dubai (Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Eureka Forbes Limited).
PART “B”: ASSOCIATE COMPANIES/JOINT VENTURES
Not Applicable as there are no Associate Companies and Joint Ventures
On behalf of the Board of Directors of
Eureka Forbes Limited
Arvind Uppal
Chairman
(DIN: 00104992)
Place: Gurugram
Pratik Pota
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 00751178)
Place: Mumbai
Date: August 11, 2025
Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary
Membership No.: 17167
Place: Mumbai
Gaurav Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Mumbai
Annexure – 2
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (“CSR”)  
ACTIVITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2024-25
[Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies  
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, as amended]
1.	
BRIEF OUTLINE ON CSR POLICY OF THE COMPANY
	
The Company is dedicated to add value to every individual in the country through its business by integrating societal, 
economic, environmental and sustainable commitments. The main CSR objective of the Company is to provide every 
Indian access to healthy water, pure air and clean earth, both at home and outside.
	
In accordance with the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has committed 2% (Profit before Tax) annually towards 
CSR initiatives. The CSR Policy of the Company outlines the approach and direction given by the Board, taking into 
account the recommendations of its CSR Committee, and includes guiding principles for selection, implementation 
and monitoring of CSR activities as well as formulation of the annual CSR action plan.
2.	
COMPOSITION OF CSR COMMITTEE AS ON MARCH 31, 2025
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Designation / Nature of 
Directorship
Number of Meetings
of CSR Committee
held during the year
Number of Meetings
of CSR Committee
attended during
the year
1
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
Chairperson, Non-Executive, 
Independent Director
4
4
2
Mr. Pratik Pota
Member, Managing Director & CEO
4
4
3
Mr. Homi Katgara
Member, Non-Executive,
Independent Director
4
2
4
Mr. Vinod Rao
Member, Non-Executive,
Independent Director
4
4
3.	
WEB-LINK 
WHERE 
COMPOSITION 
OF 
CSR COMMITTEE, CSR POLICY AND CSR 
PROJECTS APPROVED BY THE BOARD 
ARE DISCLOSED ON THE WEBSITE OF THE 
COMPANY
	
a.	
Composition 
of 
CSR 
Committee: 
www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/
corporate-social-responsibility
	
b.	
CSR Policy: www.eurekaforbes.com/cms/assets/ 
prod/Charter_of_CSR_Committee_And_ 
Policy.pdf
	
c.	
CSR Projects approved by the Board are 
disclosed on the website of the Company: 
www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/
corporate-social-responsibility
4.	
PROVIDE 
THE 
EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARY 
ALONG WITH WEB-LINK(S) OF IMPACT 
ASSESSMENT OF CSR PROJECTS CARRIED 
OUT IN PURSUANCE OF SUB-RULE (3) OF 
RULE 8, IF APPLICABLE: Not Applicable
5.	
CSR DETAILS
	
a.	
Average net profit of the Company as per section 
135(5): ` 59,07,54,684/-
	
b.	
Two percent of average net profit of the Company 
as per section 135(5): ` 1,18,15,094/-
	
c.	
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or 
programmes or activities of the previous 
Financial Years: NIL
	
d.	
Amount required to be set off for the Financial 
Year, if any: NIL
	
e.	
Total CSR obligation for the Financial Year 
[(b)+(c)- (d)]: ` 1,18,15,094/-
6.	
a.	
Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing 
Project and other than Ongoing Project): 
` 1,14,51,706/-
	
b.	
Amount 
spent 
in 
Administrative 
Overheads: ` 5,56,294/-
	
c.	
Amount 
spent 
on 
Impact 
Assessment, 
if 
applicable: Not applicable
	
d.	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year 
[(a)+(b)+(c)]: ` 1,20,08,000/-
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
98
99
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
	
e.	
CSR Amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year:
Total Amount
spent for the 
Financial 
Year (`)
Amount Unspent
Total Amount transferred to
unspent CSR Account as per
Section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to Section 
135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of Transfer
1,20,08,000
NIL
NIL
	
f.	
Excess Amount for set off, if any: Nil
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Amount (`)
1
Two percent of average Net Profit of the Company as per Section 135(5)
1,18,15,094
2
Total Amount spent for the Financial Year
1,20,08,000
3
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]
1,92,906
4
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous 
Financial Year, if any
Nil
5
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
1,92,906
7.	
DETAILS OF UNSPENT CSR AMOUNT FOR THE PRECEDING THREE FINANCIAL YEARS: NIL
8.	
WHETHER ANY CAPITAL ASSETS HAVE BEEN CREATED OR ACQUIRED THROUGH CORPORATE 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AMOUNT SPENT IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR: NIL
9.	
SPECIFY THE REASON(S), IF THE COMPANY HAS FAILED TO SPEND TWO PERCENT OF THE 
AVERAGE NET PROFIT AS PER SECTION 135(5): Not Applicable
Gurveen Singh
Chairperson, CSR Committee
(DIN: 09507365)
Place: Florida, USA
Date: August 11, 2025
Pratik Pota
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 00751178)
Place: Mumbai
On behalf of the Board of Directors of
Eureka Forbes Limited
Arvind Uppal
Chairman
(DIN: 00104992)
Place: Gurugram
Annexure – 3
FORM No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule No.9 of the
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova,
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel,
Mumbai – 400 013, Maharashtra, India
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by Eureka Forbes Limited (“the 
Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner 
that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate conducts / statutory compliances and expressing 
our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also the 
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorised representatives during the conduct of 
secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the 
Company has, during the audit period covering the financial 
year ended on March 31, 2025, (the “Audit Period”) 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board processes 
and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed, and other records maintained by the 
Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 2025 
according to the provisions of:
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the rules 
made there under;
ii.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(“SCRA”) and the Rules made thereunder;
iii.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed there under;
iv.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of 
Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment 
and External Commercial Borrowings;
v.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (“SEBI Act”);
	
a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011 as amended from time to time;
	
b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 as amended from time to time;
	
c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
as amended from time to time;
	
d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018 as amended from time to 
time - Not applicable to the Company during 
the Audit period;
	
e)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 as amended from time to time;
	
f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021 - Not applicable to the 
Company during the Audit period;
	
g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with client;
	
h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 
- Not Applicable to the Company during the 
Audit Period, and
	
i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 
- Not Applicable to the Company during 
the Audit Period;
	
j)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018;
vi.	
We have relied on the representations made by the 
Company and its officers for systems and mechanism 
formed by the Company for compliances under other 
various applicable Acts, Laws, Rules and Regulations 
to the Company.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
100
101
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards (SS-1 and SS-2) issued by The 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India;
(ii)	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company 
with BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited read with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI 
LODR Regulations”).
To the best of our knowledge and belief, during the period 
under review, the Company has complied with the provisions 
of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc. 
mentioned above.
We further report that:
a)	
During the year under review, the Board of Directors 
of the Company was duly constituted with proper 
balance 
of 
Executive 
Director, 
Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors. The Committees 
of the Board are duly constituted. No changes in 
the composition of the Board of Directors took place 
during the Audit Period.
b)	
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule 
the Board Meetings and Committee Meetings, the 
agenda and notes on agenda were sent at least seven 
days in advance or with due consents for shorter 
notice from the directors and an adequate system 
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting 
and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
c)	
All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee 
Meetings are carried out unanimously / with requisite 
majority, as recorded in the minutes of the meetings 
of the Board of Directors or Committee of the Board, 
as the case may be. Further, the dissenting members’ 
views, if any, are captured and recorded as part 
of the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period, the following 
event/action has taken place having a major bearing on 
the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred 
laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, etc. 
referred to above:
•	
The Company had made an application to National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (“the NSE”) for listing 
of shares of the Company on NSE. Accordingly, the 
shares of the Company got listed on the NSE with 
effect from September 11, 2024.
We further report that during the audit period, the Company 
has co-operated with us and have produced before us all 
the required forms information, clarifications, returns and 
other documents as required for the purpose of our audit.
For MIHEN HALANI & ASSOCIATES
 Practicing Company Secretaries
Mihen Halani
Place: Mumbai 	
(Proprietor)
Date: August 11, 2025	
CP No: 12015
UDIN: F009926G000977409	
FCS No:9926
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date which 
is annexed as “Annexure A” herewith and forms as integral part 
of this report.
Annexure – A to Annexure – 3
To,
The Members,
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova,
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel,
Mumbai – 400 013, Maharashtra, India
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
Management’s Responsibility
1.	
Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
Auditor’s Responsibility
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct 
facts are reflected in Secretarial records. We believe that the process and practices, we followed do provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the Compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
Disclaimer
5.	
The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the 
responsibility of the management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For MIHEN HALANI & ASSOCIATES
 Practicing Company Secretaries
Mihen Halani
Place: Mumbai 	
(Proprietor)
Date: August 11, 2025	
CP No: 12015
UDIN: F009926G000977409	
FCS No:9926
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
102
103
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
A.	 CONSERVATION OF ENERGY
i. 
Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy 
and Capital investment on energy equipments:
	
Green Features of Dehradun Plant:
	
The Dehradun factory is a landmark which incorporates 
a list of eco-friendly features, which are as follows:
	
•	
Pre-fabricated 
Steel 
Structure: 
The 
prefabricated steel structure is a unique feature 
of this building. The building was developed 
with minimum site disturbance and the materials 
were effectively used by adopting the design 
specification 
based 
on 
the 
internal 
load 
requirements thereby optimising the use of 
natural resources.
	
•	
Fly Ash based Bricks & Hollow blocks: The 
construction was made with fly ash based bricks, 
cement and concrete blocks. This reduces the 
burden of earth and increases the life of spend 
materials. In addition, the fly ash material acts 
as a better thermal insulation and increases 
the physical comfort of the people and is 
environment-friendly.
	
• 
Natural Light Harvesting: The building is 
designed with a daylight view and adequate 
daylight harvesting. This saves energy for 
power requirements.
	
•	
Thermal Comfort at Factory Premises: The 
building is insulated with fly ash based bricks, 
cement and hollow blocks thus resisting the 
external temperature influences. In addition, the 
roof is insulated with specialised media, and 
Turbo ventilators are strategically installed to 
maintain air circulation.
	
•	
Turbo 
Ventilators: 
Unlike 
the 
traditional 
ventilation methods, Turbo vent works up the 
hot air from inside the building by natural 
convection. This roof-top wind driven ventilator is 
cost-effective and runs without electricity.
	
• 
Water Efficiency: The building is fitted with 
water-efficient gadgets that can save up to 70% 
on usage. The tap fittings are designed with preset 
flow and timer. Once you press, the water flows for 
6 seconds and stops automatically. The Water taps 
are automated and use contactless sensor-based 
technology which helps in further conservation of 
water and contactless hand-wash.
Annexure – 4
Information under Section 134(3) (m) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 8(3) of the Company (Accounts)  
Rules, 2014 made thereunder forming part of the Board’s Report for the year ended March 31, 2024
 
• 
Rain Water Harvesting: The rooftop water is 
harvested for collection in a tank for ‘Use When 
Available’ and excess is used for borewell 
recharge. The rooftop water is recharged into the 
ground through recharge pits. In this way most 
of the roof water is trapped either in the tank 
or underground.
	
•	
Introduction of Green Packaging: As part of its 
commitment to sustainable or green packaging, 
the Company has been actively working to 
reduce the use of thermocol buffers by promoting 
recyclable alternatives such as pulp buffers and 
Expanded Polystyrene (EPS). Pulp packaging 
offers 
several 
environmental 
advantages, 
including zero manufacturing waste and 100% 
recyclability. Building on last year’s progress, 
the Company has further advanced its efforts by 
initiating the transition to eco-friendly honeycomb 
packaging for water purifiers. In the first phase 
of this initiative, 5% of the product portfolio has 
successfully adopted this sustainable packaging 
solution, reinforcing the Company’s dedication 
to environmental responsibility and circular 
economy practices.
 
• 
Energy 
Efficient 
Compressor: 
Variable 
Frequency Drive (“VFD”) (new energy-efficient) 
air compressor installed at the Dehradun 
Factory which resulted into reducing the 
energy consumption.
	
•	
Installation of High-volume Low Speed (HVLS) 
fans at both manufacturing plants to improve air 
circulation and reduce energy consumption.
ii. 
Steps taken towards conservation of Environment:
	
Your Company has been constantly innovating ways to 
reduce usage of plastics and other material that could 
pollute environment and follows the Environmental, 
Health & Safety (“EHS”) norms. Following activities 
have been taken and followed under this initiative:
	
1.	
Elimination of Transparent Stickers: Removed 
transparent stickers from products to reduce 
non-recyclable waste.
	
2.	
Electric scooters has been introduced at the 
Dehradun factory as a sustainable mobility 
solution to help reduce carbon emissions and 
support the Company’s decarbonisation efforts.
	
3.	
At our Dehradun and Bengaluru facilities, rooftop 
solar plants with capacities of 246.5 kWp and 
165 kWp respectively are planned for installation. 
The project is scheduled to be commissioned 
in FY 2025–26, contributing to our renewable 
energy goals and reducing dependency on 
conventional power sources.
	
4.	
Designed and implemented advanced membrane 
auto-flushing systems in institutional RO units, 
resulting in up to 60% water savings compared to 
conventional designs—enhancing efficiency and 
supporting sustainable water management.
	
5.	
Initiated the use of RO reject water for toilet 
flushing to promote water conservation.
	
6.	
A zero-energy gravity spiral roller conveyor 
has been installed at the Bengaluru factory, 
enabling efficient material movement without any 
power consumption.
	
7.	
At 
Bengaluru 
factory, 
installed 
Retrofitting 
Emission Control Device (RECD) to mitigate 
emissions [Particular Matter (“PM”), Hydrocarbon 
(“HC”), Carbon Monoxide (“CM”)].
	
8.	
Sewage treatment plants (STP) and Effluent 
treatment plants (“ETP”) installed at the Dehradun 
and Bengaluru factories to treat the waste water 
and achieve zero wastage of water.
	
9.	
Disposal of bio medical waste, e-waste and used 
oil as per the protocols through Government 
approved handlers.
	
10.	 Selective replacement of streetlights with Solar/ 
Light Emitting Diode (“LED”) lights.
	
11.	 Energy-efficient Air Conditioners (“AC”) with 
environmentally friendly refrigerants installed as 
replacements for the old AC units.
	
12.	 User manuals converted to Digital mode, using QR 
code technology to reduce paper usage further.
	
13.	 Conversion of colour carton to Brown carton in 
Direct division products – thereby saving printing 
INK which is not environment-friendly and 
elimination of laminated plastic layer sheet.
	
14.	 With a new innovative technology of using “Q 
fit connectors”, your Company could eliminate 
bigger plastic connectors at pipe junction points, 
thereby reducing plastic consumption.
	
15.	 Use of recyclable plastic cartons which can be 
used multiple times by vendors for shipping 
raw material. This would mean less usage of 
corrugated cartons.
	
16.	 Registered under Government’s EPR (“Extended 
Producers’ 
Responsibility”) 
scheme, 
to 
ensure proper waste management of plastic 
packaging material.
	
17.	 Piezometer at Dehradun plant to measure and 
monitor groundwater level.
	
18.	 IoT-based Borewell water flow meter to measure 
daily water extraction.
	
19.	 Elimination of Polythene cover used over the 
packing cartons & over Finished Goods (“FGs”) 
packaging to reduce usage of plastic.
	
20.	 The Dehradun and Bengaluru manufacturing 
facilities are BIS certified for Reverse Osmosis 
based water purifiers for higher recovery products.
B.	 TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION
	
Your Company doesn’t just create products; we 
focus on the entire lifecycle—how our products are 
perceived, experienced, and used by our consumers.
	
Your Company is committed to delivering innovative 
solutions for real-life consumer challenges by 
combining internal research and development coupled 
with external ideas, expertise, and resources.
	
Your Company believes in creating value for society, 
consumers, and the Company itself through a spirit 
of Open Innovation. To catalyze this, it collaborates 
with technology partners across the value chain, 
universities, innovators, and leading research institutes. 
Through these partnerships and its commitment to 
Open Innovation, Your Company continuously strives 
to deliver new and improved technologies while 
creating business and market opportunities.
	
The R&D team at Your Company has developed 
cutting-edge technologies and introduced innovative 
features in its products. These innovations are 
specifically designed to meet the unique needs of the 
market, including:
	
• 
Heavy Metal Remover Technology: Integrated 
Heavy Metal Remover Cartridge into UV water 
purification systems to enhance safety and 
improved water quality.
	
• 
Water Saver Technology: Implemented across 
all RO water purifier models, this technology 
ensures a minimum 40% water recovery rate, 
meeting BIS standards and advancing our 
commitment to sustainability.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
104
105
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
	
•	
Mercury Free LED for microbial disinfection: 
Rolled out Mercury-Free UVC LED Modules for 
chemical-free and eco-friendly water disinfection.
	
•	
Instant UV LED reactor inline UTC Water 
Purifier: Developed and implemented Instant UV 
UTC Water Purifiers for low TDS regions, ensuring 
quick and effective purification.
	
•	
Instant Hot Technology: Introduced a new 
instant hot water purifier with a child-safe feature 
that dispenses hot water immediately, eliminating 
any waiting time.
	
•	
Internet of Things: Introduced IoT-enabled 
Smart Water Purifiers, enhancing user control 
and connectivity.
 
• 
Water Saver Auto flush system: Deployed 
new Water Saver Auto Flush Mechanism in 
commercial water purification systems to reduce 
water wastage and improve system longevity.
	
•	
Smart Clean Robotic cleaner: Launched the 
Smart Clean Auto Bin featuring Hands-Free 
Dust Empty Technology, improving hygiene and 
user convenience.
	
•	
5-Minute Quick Mapping in Robotic Vacuum 
Cleaners – Launched Rapid home mapping for 
faster and more efficient cleaning cycles.
	
•	
Cordless 
Upright 
Vacuum 
cleaner 
with 
cyclonic technology: Introduced affordable 
cordless upright vacuum cleaners offering 
best-in-class performance, combining portability 
with powerful suction.
 
• 
Smart Air Purifiers: Launched Smart air purifiers 
with a Clean Air Delivery Rate (CADR) of 500, 
delivering fast and efficient air purification.
 
Expenditure on Research and Development:
	
a.	
Capital: ` 204.92 Lakhs
	
b.	
Recurring: ` 1,805.77 Lakhs
	
c.	
Total: ` 2,010.69 Lakhs
C.	 FOREIGN 
EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS 
AND 
OUTGO
 
a. 
Activities relating to exports; initiatives taken 
to increase exports; development of new 
export markets for products and services and 
export plans
	
	
Your Company has initiated the process of 
developing new international markets to increase 
its export business which at present is less than 
1% of its turnover.
	
b.	
Total Foreign Exchange used and earned
	
	
Earnings in foreign exchange during the year 
under review were  ` 76.61 Lakhs and the outgo 
was ` 30,167.72 Lakhs.
Place: Gurugram
Date: August 11, 2025
On behalf of the Board of Directors of
Eureka Forbes Limited
Arvind Uppal
Chairman
(DIN: 00104992)
Annexure – 5
Details pertaining to remuneration as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 
5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 for the year ended 
March 31, 2025
1.	
THE RATIO OF THE REMUNERATION OF EACH DIRECTOR TO THE MEDIAN REMUNERATION OF 
THE EMPLOYEES OF THE COMPANY FOR THE YEAR
	
The median remuneration of employees of the Company for the Year and ratio of the remuneration of each Director to 
the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the Financial Year is provided in the table below:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Designation
Ratio of the remuneration 
of each Director to Median 
Remuneration of the 
Employees for 2024-25
1
Mr. Arvind Uppal
Chairman, Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
5.93
2
Mr. Pratik Pota
Managing Director & CEO
159.50
3
Mr. Sahil Dalal
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
NA
4
Mr. Vinod Rao
Independent Director
6.02
5
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
Independent Director
6.02
6
Mr. Homi Katgara
Independent Director
5.68
7
Mr. Shashank Samant
Independent Director
5.77
	
Notes:
	
1.	
Mr. Sahil Dalal has waived his right to sitting fee and commission.
2.	
THE PERCENTAGE INCREASE IN THE REMUNERATION OF EACH DIRECTOR, CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, COMPANY SECRETARY OR MANAGER, IF ANY, IN THE 
FINANCIAL YEAR
 
a. 
The percentage increase in the remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer, Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in the Financial Year:
	
	
The percentage increase/decrease in the remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer, Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in 2024-25 is provided in the table below:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director/KMP
Designation
% Increase in
Remuneration in
2024-25
1
Mr. Pratik Pota
Managing Director & CEO
12%
2
Mr. Gaurav Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
12%
3
Ms. Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
9%
	
b.	
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the Financial Year: 7.1%
	
c.	
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company:
	
	
There were 2,721 permanent employees on the rolls of the Company as on March 31, 2025.
 
d. 
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel 
in the last Financial Year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration 
and justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the 
managerial remuneration: 
	
	
The average increase in the salaries of employees other than managerial personnel during the Financial Year 
2024-25 was 9%, while that of the Key Managerial Personnel was 11%
 
e. 
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company:
	
	
It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid is as per the Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the 
Company.
Place: Gurugram
Date: August 11, 2025
On behalf of the Board of Directors of
Eureka Forbes Limited
Arvind Uppal
Chairman
(DIN: 00104992)
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
106
107
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Your Company’s Report on Corporate Governance for 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 pursuant to 
Regulation 34(3) and Clause (C) of Schedule V of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (“SEBI 
Listing Regulations”) is presented as follows:
1.	
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
	
The key pillars of Company’s Corporate Governance 
Philosophy are:
	
a.	
Deep & fair relationship with stakeholders;
	
b.	
Trust, Transparency and integrity; and
	
c.	
Ethical Business Practices & Standards.
	
Your 
Company’s 
philosophy 
on 
corporate 
governance is backed by its value systems that 
promote transparency, fairness, and accountability, 
thus ensuring sustainable success and a substantial 
contribution 
towards 
corporate 
responsibility. 
The vision of your Company and its leaders, 
imbibing a sense of purpose beyond profit, adopt a 
holistic approach that embraces the perspective of 
all stakeholders.
	
In line with this philosophy, your Company has taken 
efforts to put in place a comprehensive framework that 
ensures timely disclosures and accurate dissemination 
of 
information. 
Your 
Company’s 
philosophy 
is 
supplemented by various codes of conduct and 
charters that govern the functioning of the Board 
of Directors, Board Committees, and senior-level 
management and, when read in conjunction with 
the constitutional documents of your Company, are 
in compliance with various applicable laws, rules, 
regulations, and guidelines.
	
The Corporate Governance philosophy of your 
Company is driven by the interests of stakeholders 
and the business needs of the organisation. 
Corporate 
Governance 
is 
essential 
for 
the 
growth, profitability, and stability of any business. 
Aligning itself with this philosophy, your Company has 
placed Corporate Governance as a high priority.
	
The 
highlights 
of 
your 
Company’s 
Corporate 
Governance policy are:
	
•	
Your 
Company 
believes 
that 
an 
active, 
well-informed 
and 
independent 
Board 
is 
necessary to ensure high standards of Corporate 
Governance. Your Company has appropriate 
mix of Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
including a Woman Director.
Report on Corporate Governance
Annexure – 6
	
•	
Constitution of various Committees for focussed 
attention and proactive flow of information enables 
the Company to ensure expedient resolution of 
diversified matters.
	
•	
Emphasis on ethical business conduct by the 
Board, management and employees.
	
•	
Established Code of Conduct for Directors and 
employees along with the Code of Conduct for 
Prevention of Insider Trading.
	
•	
Detailed Policy for Disclosure of Material Events 
and Information.
	
•	
Established Whistle Blower Mechanism which 
acts as a neutral and unbiased forum for 
Directors, Employees and Business Partners of 
the Company and its subsidiaries.
	
•	
Endeavour to continuously contribute to social 
and environmental spheres through various CSR 
programmes creating shared values.
	
•	
Robust and effective framework for reporting 
of statutory compliances and review on a 
periodic basis.
	
•	
Timely, transparent and regular disclosures.
	
•	
Benchmarking 
its 
corporate 
governance 
practices against peers and industry leaders.
	
•	
Exercising effective control over the Company’s 
operations to meet stakeholders’ expectations 
and drive long term value creation.
2.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(a)	 Board Composition
	
Your Company has a professional Board with the 
right mix of knowledge, skills and expertise in diverse 
areas and an optimum combination of Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors, including Independent 
Directors and a Woman Director. Besides having 
financial literacy, vast experience, leadership qualities, 
and the ability to think strategically, the Directors 
are committed to ensuring the highest standards of 
Corporate Governance. The Board of Directors at the 
Company holds fiduciary responsibility to ensure that 
the Company’s actions and objectives are aligned with 
sustainable growth and long-term value creation.
	
The Board meets at least 4 (Four) times a year and more 
often if the Company needs additional oversight and 
guidance. During the Financial Year 2024-25, the time 
gap between any two Board Meetings did not exceed 
120 days. The Board of Directors periodically review 
compliance reports pertaining to all laws applicable 
to the Company. All statutory and other matters of 
significance, including information as mentioned in 
Part A of Schedule II of SEBI Listing Regulations are 
informed to the Board to enable it to discharge its 
responsibility of strategic supervision of the Company.
	
Further, with diversified professional experience, the 
Board provides leadership and guidance, objective 
judgment and at the same time monitors the strategic 
direction of the Company.
	
The Board’s key responsibilities include:
	
1.	
Strategic Planning & Monitoring: Developing 
the long-term business plan and strategy, and 
overseeing its effective implementation.
	
2.	
Shareholder Value & Stakeholder Interests: 
Enhancing shareholder value while safeguarding 
the 
interests 
of 
all 
stakeholders 
through 
effective management.
	
3. 
Corporate Governance Oversight: Monitoring 
the effectiveness of the Company’s corporate 
governance practices to ensure alignment with 
the highest standards.
	
4. 
Control & Oversight: Exercising effective 
control over the Company’s operations to meet 
stakeholder expectations and drive long-term 
value creation.
	
As on March 31, 2025, the Board consists of 07 
(Seven) Directors including 01 (One) Independent 
Woman Director. Out of 07 (Seven) Directors, 01 
(One) is Managing Director & CEO, 04 (Four) 
are Non-Executive & Independent Directors and 
02 (Two) are Non-Executive & Non-Independent 
Directors. Your Company has a Non-Executive & 
Non-Independent Chairman. The composition of 
the Board is in conformity with Regulation 17 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations read with Section 149 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
	
The Board has constituted five Statutory Committees: 
Audit 
Committee, 
Nomination 
& 
Remuneration 
Committee, Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, 
Risk Management Committee and Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee.
	
Further, the Company also has a non-statutory 
Committee by the name “Finance Committee” to 
oversee investments, borrowings, and loan approvals, 
ensuring swift financial decision-making.
7
Board Members
57%
Independent Directors
28% 
Non-Executive Non 
Independent Director
14%
Woman Director
Separate 
Positions
of Chairman and MD & CEO
Independent 
Chairpersons
Woman 
Director
for all the Statutory Committees 
(Except Stakeholder 
Relationship Committee)
part of each Statutory Committee 
of the Company
BOARD COMPOSITION
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
108
109
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
	
The composition of the Board and the Directorship and Committee positions held by the Directors as on March 31, 
2025 is as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Name and DIN
Category
No. of 
Directorships 
in Companies1
Directorship held in 
Listed Companies
Committee Positions 
(including EFL)2
Member
Chairperson
1
Mr. Arvind Uppal 
(DIN: 00104992)
Non-Executive, 
Non- Independent 
Director (Chairman)
4
1.	 Whirlpool of India 
Limited – Non-
Executive, Independent 
Director (Chairman)
2.	 Gulf Oil Lubricants 
India Limited - Non-
Executive, Independent 
Director
3.	 Amber Enterprises 
India Limited - Non-
Executive, Independent 
Director
4.	 Eureka Forbes Limited
6
4
2
Mr. Pratik Pota  
(DIN: 00751178)
Managing Director 
& CEO
1
Eureka Forbes Limited
1
0
3
Mr. Sahil Dalal  
(DIN: 07350808)
Non-Executive, 
Non-Independent 
Director
2
Eureka Forbes Limited
3
0
4
Mr. Vinod Rao
(DIN: 01788921)
Non-Executive,
Independent 
Director
2
1.	 Cohance Lifesciences 
Limited
2.	 Eureka Forbes Limited
3
2
5
Mrs. Gurveen Singh 
(DIN: 09507365)
Non-Executive,
Independent 
Director
2
Eureka Forbes Limited
2
0
6
Mr. Homi Katgara 
(DIN: 00210338)
Non-Executive,
Independent 
Director
1
Eureka Forbes Limited
0
0
7
Mr. Shashank
Samant  
(DIN: 09733485)
Non-Executive,
Independent 
Director
1
Eureka Forbes Limited
1
0
	
Notes:
	
1.	
Includes Directorships in Public Companies and Eureka Forbes Limited and excludes private companies, foreign companies, 
companies incorporated under Section 8 of the Act and alternate Directorships.
	
2.	
Committee Membership and Chairmanship as on March 31, 2025 includes only Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee of Public Limited Companies (including Eureka Forbes Limited).
	
3.	
None of the Directors are related to each other.
	
As per Regulation 17A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, all Directors meet the criteria for the maximum number of 
Directorships. Further, the Managing Director & CEO of the Company does not serve as Independent Director of any 
other listed entity.
	
None of the Directors is a member of more than ten Committees or the Chairman / Chairperson of more than five 
Committees across all the public companies in which he or she is a Director. The limits of the Board Committees, 
Chairpersonship and Membership of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee have been 
considered as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of the Listing Regulations.
	
Flow of information to the Board
	
The 
Board 
has 
unrestricted 
access 
to 
all 
Company-related information including to members 
of the management. The Company Secretary ensures 
that the Board and the Committees of the Board are 
provided with the relevant information, details and 
documents required for decision-making.
	
The Chairman of the Board and the Company 
Secretary determine the agenda for every meeting 
in consultation with the Managing Director & CEO. 
Regular inputs and feedback from Directors/Members 
of Board Committees are taken and considered while 
preparing the agenda and related documents for the 
Board and its Committee meetings.
	
While preparing the agenda, explanatory notes, and 
minutes of the meetings, adherence to the Act and 
the Rules made thereunder, the Listing Regulations, 
Secretarial Standards issued by ICSI, and other 
applicable laws are ensured.
	
With a view to leveraging technology, ensure high 
standards of confidentiality of the agenda and 
to eliminate paper consumption, the Company 
circulates the notices, agenda papers, presentations 
and explanatory notes to the Directors/Committee 
members, through a web-based application which 
can be securely accessed by the Directors/Committee 
members through their hand-held devices, laptop, 
iPads and browsers. A soft copy of the said agenda(s) 
is uploaded on the Board Portal at least 7 (seven) days 
before the meeting.
	
The 
management 
makes 
concerted 
efforts 
to 
continuously upgrade the information available to the 
Board for decision making and the Board members 
are updated on all key developments relating 
to the Company.
	
The Company Secretary attends all the meetings of the 
Board and its Committees and is, inter alia, responsible 
for recording the minutes of such meetings.
	
The Company Executives are also invited to join the 
meetings of the Board/Committees with permission of 
the Chairperson.
	
The Company Executives joining the said meetings is 
also an opportunity for the Board/Committee members 
to interact with the members of the management.
	
The Board and Committee Members also engage 
with Company Executives on key updates and 
developments beyond the scope of statutory meetings.
	
The draft minutes of the meetings of the Board 
and its Committees are sent to the members for 
their comments in accordance with the Secretarial 
Standard on Meetings of the Board of Directors (“SS – 
1”) issued by ICSI.
	
The Company adheres to the provisions of the Act 
and the Rules made thereunder, Secretarial Standards 
and the Listing Regulations with respect to convening 
and holding the meetings of the Board, its Committees 
and the General Meetings of the shareholders 
of the Company.
(b)	 Board Meetings and attendance records
	
Your Company has in place a pre-scheduled and 
tentative annual calendar of the Board and Committee 
Meetings that is circulated to the Directors well 
in advance to facilitate their planning and ensure 
meaningful participation in the meetings. However, with 
the Board being represented by Independent Directors 
from various parts of the world, it may not be possible 
for all of them to be physically present at all meetings. 
Hence, we provide video / teleconferencing facilities to 
enable their participation. However, in cases of urgent 
business and exigencies, the requisite approvals 
are taken through the process of circular resolution 
as permitted by law. Subsequently, the resolutions 
passed through circulation are noted and confirmed in 
the immediate following Board/ Committee Meeting.
	
The Company conducts pre-meetings with respective 
Chairs of the Board and Committees to finalise 
the Agenda of the upcoming meeting. The Notice 
convening the Board and Committee Meeting, along 
with the detailed agenda, setting out the business 
to be transacted at such Meetings and relevant 
documents in order to facilitate understanding are 
circulated in advance except for the meetings called 
at a shorter notice.
	
The Managing Director & CEO and Chief Financial 
Officer present the Company’s financials on quarterly 
basis and the management also conducts day-long 
strategy meets with the Board to discuss the operating 
and capex budget, seek guidance on the Company’s 
future course of action, and implement the Board’s 
strategic recommendations. Post meetings, important 
decisions taken by the Board are communicated to the 
concerned officials and departments. Internal Notings 
are taken down during the meetings and the 
actionables are diligently carried through.
	
The Board of Directors (“Board”) is responsible for the 
strategic supervision and overseeing the management 
performance and governance of your Company 
on behalf of the Members and other stakeholders. 
Your Company is professionally managed under the 
overall supervision of the Board. The Board’s roles, 
functions, responsibilities and accountability are 
clearly defined. The day-to-day management of the 
Company is entrusted with the Senior Management 
of the Company and is headed by the Managing 
Director & CEO, who functions under the overall 
supervisions, directions and control of the Board. 
The Board has ultimate responsibility of reviewing and 
guiding corporate strategy, major plans of action, risk 
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
110
111
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
policy, annual budgets and business plans, setting 
performance objectives, monitoring implementation, 
and corporate performance, and overseeing major 
capital expenditures, acquisitions, mergers, general 
affairs, direction, performance and long-term success 
of the business as a whole. The Board sets out the 
overall corporate objectives and provides direction and 
independence to the management to achieve these 
objectives for value creation through sustained growth. 
The Board seeks accountability of the management in 
creating long-term sustainable growth to ensure that 
the aspirations of stakeholders are fulfilled. It also sets 
out standards of corporate behaviour and ensures 
compliance with laws and regulations impacting the 
Company’s business.
	
There were Five (05) Board Meetings held during Financial Year 2024-25.
	
Attendance Record of the Directors for the Financial Year 2024-25:
Name of Director
May  
28, 2024
June  
20, 2024
August  
08, 2024
November 
07, 2024
February  
10, 2025
% of 
attendance in 
Board Meeting
Last AGM 
September 
20, 2024
Mr. Arvind Uppal
√
√
√
√
√
100
√
Mr. Pratik Pota
√
√
√
√
√
100
√
Mr. Sahil Dalal
√
Ab
√
√
√
80
√
Mr. Vinod Rao
√
√
√
√
√
100
√
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
√
√
√
√
√
100
√
Mr. Homi Katgara
Ab
Ab
√
Ab
√
40
√
Mr. Shashank Samant
Ab
Ab
√
√
√
60
Ab
(c)	 Shareholding of Directors as on March 31, 2025
Name of the Director
No of Shares Held
Mr. Homi Katgara
10,000
	
No other Director holds any shares in the Company.
Financial calendar
Quarter ending
n   June 30, 2024	
	
n   September 30, 2024
n   December 31, 2024	
n   March 31, 2025
Board Meeting
n    May 28, 2024	
	
n   June 20, 2024
n    August 08, 2024	
	
n    November 07, 2024 
n    February 10, 2025
Analyst / Earnings Call
n    May 29, 2024	
	
n   August 09, 2024
n    November 08, 2024	
n   February 11, 2025
Trading Window Closure
n  	 April 01, 2024 to May 30, 2024
n  	 July 01, 2024 to  August 12, 2024
n  	 October 01, 2024 to November 11, 2024
n  	 January 01, 2025 to February 13, 2025
(d)	 Succession Planning
	
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee works with the Board on the leadership succession plan to ensure orderly 
succession in appointments to the Board and to senior management positions. The Company strives to maintain an 
appropriate balance of skills and experience within the organisation and the Board in an endeavour to introduce new 
perspectives while maintaining experience and continuity.
	
All new Non-Executive Directors inducted into the Board are introduced to the Company culture through orientation 
sessions. The Executive Director and senior management provide an overview of operations, and familiarise the 
new Non-Executive Directors on matters related to our values and commitments. They are also introduced to the 
organisation structure, services, Group structure and subsidiaries, constitution, Board procedures, matters reserved 
for the Board, major risks and risk management strategy. The details of the training programme attended by the 
Directors during the Financial Year 2024-25 are as follows and the same is available on the Company’s website at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/cms/assets/prod/Familiarization_Programme_2024_25_Final_file.pdf
Sr.  
No.
Name of the Director
No. of training hours attended during the 
Financial Year 2024-25
1
Mr. Vinod Rao
24.00
2
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
24.00
3
Mr. Homi Katgara
19.00
4
Mr. Shashank Samant
19.50
(e)	 Matrix Setting out Core Competencies of the Board of Directors
	
The Company ensures the composition of the Board is a thoughtful combination of various skills, competencies, and 
experiences that in turn facilitates Board Diversity.
	
The following set of skills/expertise/competencies are identified by the Board as a parameter to nominate a 
candidate on the Board:
	
•	
Industry knowledge and experience
	
•	
Financial and risk management skills
	
•	
Leadership and management skills
	
•	
Corporate governance
	
•	
Technical aspects
	
Tabled below are the key skills, expertise and competence of the Board of Directors in the context of the Company’s 
business for effective functioning, as available with the Board.
Name of Director
Industry 
knowledge and 
Experience
Financial 
and risk 
Management 
skills
Leadership 
and 
Management 
skills
Corporate 
Governance
Technical 
aspects
Mr. Arvind Uppal
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Pratik Pota
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Sahil Dalal
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Vinod Rao
√
√
√
√
√
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Homi Katgara
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Shashank Samant
√
√
√
√
√
(f) 
Confirmation as regards Independence of Independent Director and Meeting of Independent Directors
	
The Board confirms that based on the written affirmations received from each Independent Director, all Independent 
Directors fulfil the conditions specified for independence as stipulated in Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, as amended, read with Section 149(6) of the Act, along with the rules framed thereunder, and are 
independent of the Management. Further, the Independent Directors have also registered their names in the database 
maintained by the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA) as mandated in the Companies (Appointment and 
Qualification of Directors), Rules, 2014, as amended.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
112
113
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
	
None of the Independent Directors have any other 
material pecuniary relationships or transactions with 
the Company, its Promoters, Directors, or Senior 
management that, in their judgement, would affect 
their independence. In terms of Regulation 25(8) of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations they have confirmed that 
they are not aware of any circumstance or situation 
that exists or may be reasonably anticipated that could 
impair or impact their ability to discharge their duties.
	
During the year under review, a meeting of the 
Independent Directors was held on March 11, 2025. 
All Independent Directors were present at the meeting 
to discuss risks, the performance of the Company, 
strategy, leadership, and the performance of the 
Non-Independent Directors, the Board, and the 
Chairman, and to assess the flow of information from 
management to the Board that is necessary for the 
Board to effectively and reasonably perform its duties.
	
Familiarisation Programme
	
Pursuant to Regulation 25(7) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 
the 
Company 
conducted 
various 
familiarisation programmes for its Directors, including 
an overview of the industry in which the Company 
operates, the Company’s operations and strategy, 
the annual budget of the Company, internal control 
systems, CSR strategy framework, updates on 
various policies, updates on LODR amendments, 
investor grievances, risk management, internal audit 
plans and findings, regulatory updates at Board and 
Audit Committee Meetings, updates on prevention of 
Insider Trading Regulations, compliance with various 
applicable laws, review of industry outlook at Board 
Meetings, and regulatory framework for related 
party transactions.
	
The Company regularly engages the Independent 
Directors in deep-dive sessions to boost their 
competence and understanding of the various topics 
integral to the Company’s business and functioning.
	
Pursuant to Regulation 46 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the details required are available 
on the website of your Company at the web link: 
w w w. e u re k a f o r b e s . c o m / c m s / a s s e t s / p ro d /
Familiarization_Programme_2024_25_Final_file.pdf.
	
Senior Management Personnel
	
The Company identified following under category of SMPs, pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 16(1) (d) and 
Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Details of SMPs as on March 31, 2025 are as follows:
Sr. No. Name of SMP
Designation
1
Mr. Gaurav Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
2
Mr. Anurag Kumar
Chief Growth Officer
3
Ms. Mahnaz Shaikh
Chief Human Resources Officer
4
Mr. Nithyanand Shankar
Chief Business Officer
5
Mr. Satish Satyarthi
Chief Innovation and R & D Officer
6
Mr. Suresh Redhu
Chief Technical Officer
7
Mr. Vivek Kumar Sharma
Chief Quality & Regulatory Officer
8
Mr. Aviral Chopra
Chief Supply Chain Officer
9
Ms. Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
 
The changes in SMP during the year under review are as follows:
Sr. No. Name
Designation
Date of change
1
Mr. Aviral Chopra
Chief Supply Chain Officer
December 03, 20241
2
Mr. Ajit Dheer
Chief Operating Officer
January 31, 20252
3
Mr. Anirudha Karnataki
Head – Strategic Projects 
January 31, 20253
4
Mr. Vikas Jayna
Chief Technology Officer
December 02, 20243
	
1. Date of appointment
	
2. Date of change in role, hence cessation as SMP
	
3. Effective date of resignation
 
Role of Company Secretary in Governance 
Process:
	
The role of Company Secretary at Eureka broadly 
encompasses ensuring compliance, acting as an 
advisor to the Board of Directors and sustaining the 
highest standards of corporate governance vide 
effective development of Board and Committee 
processes, 
robust 
organisational 
governance 
through policy-making & controls and transparent 
communication with the stakeholders. The Company 
Secretary ensures that the Board processes and 
procedures are followed and regularly reviewed. 
The Company Secretary also convenes and attends 
Board, Committee and General meetings of the 
Company and ensures that all relevant information 
is made available for effective decision-making. 
Important decisions of the Board/ Committee meetings 
are communicated to the management teams 
Senior Management
Personnel
Mr. Gaurav Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Nithyanand Shankar
Chief Business Officer
Mr. Vivek Kumar Sharma
Chief Quality & Regulatory 
Officer
Mr. Anurag Kumar
Chief Growth Officer
Mr. Satish Satyarthi
Chief Innovation and R & D 
Officer
Mr. Rakesh Moza
Chief Sales Officer
Ms. Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer
Ms. Mahnaz Shaikh
Chief Human Resources 
Officer
Mr. Suresh Redhu
Chief Technical Officer
Mr. Aviral Chopra
Chief Supply Chain Officer
	
The changes in Senior Management Personnel after the end of Financial Year 2024-25 and date of signing of 
this report are as follows:
Sr. No. Name
Designation
Date of change
1
Mr. Rakesh Moza
Chief Sales Officer
May 19, 20251
2
Mr. Nithyanand Shankar
Chief Business Officer
May 16, 20252
	
1.	
Date of appointment
	
2.	
Change in role
	
The Senior Management Personnel as on the date of signing of Report are as follows:
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
114
115
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Every Director is a member of at least one committee to promote active participation, and the Woman Independent Director 
is part of all statutory committees.
Audit Committee
Mr. Vinod Rao C
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
Mr. Sahil Dalal
Risk Management Committee
Mr. Vinod Rao C
Mr. Arvind Uppal
Mr. Sahil Dalal
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
Mr. Shashank Samant
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Mrs. Gurveen Singh C
Mr. Vinod Rao
Mr. Homi Katgara
Mr. Sahil Dalal
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
Mr. Arvind Uppal  C
Mr. Pratik Pota
Mr. Vinod Rao
Mrs. Gurveen Singh 
Mr. Shashank Samant
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Mrs. Gurveen Singh C
Mr. Pratik Pota
Mr. Homi Katgara
Mr. Vinod Rao
promptly for action. The Company Secretary provides 
the necessary guidance to the Board members with 
regard to their duties, responsibilities and powers 
and assists the Chairman in all Board development 
processes including Board evaluation, and succession, 
inductions and trainings etc. Apart from partnering in 
policy advocacy initiatives and ensuring compliance 
with applicable statutory/ regulatory requirements, the 
Company Secretary also acts as an institutionalised 
interface between the Board, management and 
external stakeholders.
3.	
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
	
The Board of Directors functions either as full 
Board, or through various Committees constituted to 
oversee specific areas of business and governance. 
Each Committee is guided by its terms of reference 
approved by the Board, which define its composition, 
scope and powers.
	
All statutory committees of the Company comprise 
a majority of Independent Directors and, except for 
the Stakeholders Relationship Committee (SRC), are 
chaired by Independent Directors—ensuring their 
valuable contribution across key areas of the business. 
I.	
Audit Committee
	
Introduction
	
The Audit Committee acts as a link between the 
Statutory and Internal Auditors and the Board of 
Directors where they are primarily responsible for 
accurate financial reporting and strong internal controls. 
The Audit Committee plays a major role in assisting 
the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities of 
monitoring financial reporting processes, reviewing 
the Company’s established systems and processes for 
internal financial controls, governance and reviewing 
the Company’s statutory and internal audit activities.
	
The Audit Committee is governed by the terms 
of reference as per the regulatory requirements 
mandated by the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The composition, quorum, powers, role and scope 
are in accordance with Section 177 of the Act 
and the provisions of Regulation 18 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
	
The members of the Audit Committee are financially 
literate, and the Chairman of the Audit Committee 
has accounting and financial management expertise. 
The Audit Committee also meets with the Auditors 
without the presence of management.
	
The Audit Committee also receives the report on 
compliance under the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015. Further Compliance 
Reports under the Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Whistle Blower Policy 
are also placed before the Committee. None of the 
recommendations made by the Audit Committee were 
rejected by the Board.
	
Audit Committee is responsible for, inter alia, approval 
of related party transactions, review of internal controls 
and audit systems, oversight on risk management 
systems, financial reporting, compliance issues and 
vigil mechanism, appointment and remuneration 
Audit Committee (AC)
3
1
100%
2
5
Total 
Members
Woman 
Director
Percentage of Attendance
Independent 
Directors
Number of 
Meetings
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee (CSR)
4
1
88%
3
4
Total 
Members
Woman 
Director
Percentage of Attendance
Independent 
Directors
Number of 
Meetings
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (NRC)
4
1
88%
3
4
Total 
Members
Woman 
Director
Percentage of Attendance
Independent 
Directors
Number of 
Meetings
Risk Management Committee 
(RMC)
5
1
100%
3
2
Total 
Members
Woman 
Director
Percentage of Attendance
Independent 
Directors
Number of 
Meetings
Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee (SRC)
5
1
100%
3
1
Total 
Members
Woman 
Director
Percentage of Attendance
Independent 
Directors
Number of 
Meetings
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
116
117
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
to various auditors of the Company and their 
scope of work, etc.
	
Every quarter the Audit Committee meets the 
Statutory and Internal Auditor and Secretarial Auditor 
periodically without the presence of Management 
and Company Secretary leading to effective and 
transparent discussions.
	
Terms of Reference
	
The Audit Committee ensures that it has reviewed 
each area that it is required to review under its terms of 
reference and under applicable legislations or by way 
of good practice. This periodic review ensures that all 
areas within the scope of the Committee are reviewed.
	
Key terms of Reference of the Committee are:
	
A.	
Financial Reporting and Financial Reporting 
Processes
	
i.	
Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting 
process 
and 
the 
disclosure 
of 
financial 
statements/ results and information submitted to 
the stock exchanges, regulatory authorities or the 
Members to ensure that the financial statements 
reflect a true and fair view, and are correct, 
sufficient, and credible.
	
ii.	
Review with management the annual financial 
statements and auditor’s report thereon before 
submission to the Board for approval, with 
particular reference to:
	
	
a)	
Matters required to be included in the 
Director’s Responsibility Statement to be 
included in the Board’s Report in terms 
of Clause (c) of sub-section 3 of Section 
134 of the Act.
	
	
b)	
Changes, if any, in the accounting policies 
and reasons for the same.
	
	
c)	
Major accounting entries involving estimates 
based on the exercise of judgment by 
the management.
	
	
d)	
Significant adjustments, if any, made in 
the financial statements arising out of 
audit findings.
	
	
e)	
Compliance 
with 
listing 
and 
other 
legal 
requirements 
concerning 
Financial Statements.
	
	
f)	
Disclosure of related party transactions.
	
	
g)	
Qualification/ modified opinion, if any, in 
draft audit report.
	
iii.	
Review accounting adjustments, if any, that are 
noted or proposed by the statutory auditors but 
were ‘passed’ (as immaterial or otherwise).
	
iv.	
Scrutiny 
of 
inter-corporate 
loans 
and 
investments, if any.
	
v.	
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the 
Company, wherever it is necessary.
	
vi.	
Monitoring the end use of funds raised through 
public offers/ private placements/ debt issues 
and related matters.
	
vii.	 Review with the management the quarterly 
financial statements before submission to the 
Board for approval.
	
viii.	 Review of the Management Discussion & Analysis 
of financial condition and result of operations.
	
ix.	
Consider 
and 
discuss 
with 
the 
statutory 
auditors its judgments about the quality and 
appropriateness of the Company’s accounting 
principles as applied in its financial reporting 
with reference to Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles in India.
	
x.	
Review 
details 
of 
significant 
transactions/ 
investments by the subsidiaries.
	
B.	
Risk 
Management, 
Internal 
Control 
and 
Governance Processes
	
i.	
Review and discuss with Management the 
adequacy of the Company’s system of business 
risk assessment including the risk of fraud. 
Discuss the Company’s major financial risk 
exposures and the steps management has taken 
to monitor and control such exposures.
	
ii.	
Review and discuss with the statutory auditors, 
the internal auditors and management the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s 
system of internal controls.
	
iii.	
Review any material defalcations or acts of 
fraud/misconduct as reported by the Risk 
Management Committee.
	
C.	
Statutory Audit
	
i.	
Recommend to the Board the appointment, 
re- appointment, terms of reference and, if 
required the replacement or removal of the 
Statutory Auditors, Cost Auditors and Secretarial 
Auditors considering their independence and 
effectiveness and also recommend the audit fees.
	
ii.	
Approve all auditing and permissible non auditing 
services (services other than those services which 
cannot be rendered by the Statutory Auditors 
as per Section 144 of the Act) to be rendered 
by the Statutory Auditors and determining the 
remuneration for all such services.
	
iii.	
Annual review and discuss with the Statutory 
Auditors all significant relationships that they have 
with the Company or any of its related parties to 
determine the auditors’ independence.
	
iv.	
Review the performance of the Statutory Auditors.
	
v.	
Review and discuss the nature and scope of the 
Statutory Auditors’ before audit commences, 
annual audit as well as post-audit discussion with 
the Auditors to ascertain any area of concern.
	
vi.	
Mandatory review of Management Letters/letters 
and any significant findings and recommendations 
issued by the Statutory Auditors together with 
Management’s response thereto.
	
vii.	 Following completion of the annual audit, review 
and discuss with the Statutory Auditors any 
significant difficulties encountered during the 
course of the audit, including any restrictions on the 
scope of work or access to required information.
	
viii.	 Meet separately with the external auditors 
to discuss any matters that the Committee 
or the external auditors believe should be 
discussed separately.
	
ix.	
Review the annual Cost Audit report submitted by 
the Cost Auditors.
	
D.	
Internal Audit
	
i.	
Review the Internal Audit scope and recommend 
changes, if any.
	
ii.	
To approve appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Internal Auditors.
	
iii.	
Review with the Management the performance 
of the internal auditors and adequacy of the 
internal controls.
	
iv.	
Consider and approve, in consultation with the 
Statutory Auditors and the Internal Auditors the 
annual scope and plan of the Company’s Internal 
Audit and any significant changes thereto.
	
v.	
Review the adequacy of the Internal Audit function, 
if any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official 
heading the department, reporting structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit.
	
vi.	
Review with the Internal Auditors and the 
Statutory Auditors, the co-ordination of audit 
efforts to assure adequacy of coverage, reduction 
of redundant efforts and the effective use of 
audit resources.
	
vii.	 Review internal audit reports relating to internal 
control weaknesses.
	
viii.	 Review 
any 
significant 
findings 
and 
recommendations of Internal Audit, together with 
Management’s responses thereto.
	
ix.	
Review the findings of any internal investigations 
by the Internal Auditors into matters where there 
is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of an 
internal control system of a material nature and 
reporting the matters to the Board. Review with 
the Internal Auditors any significant difficulties 
encountered during the course of the audit, 
including any restrictions on the scope of work or 
access to required information.
	
x.	
Meet separately with the Internal Auditors to 
discuss any matters that the Committee believes 
should be discussed separately.
	
E.	
Other Responsibilities
	
i.	
(a)	 Approval of Related Party Transactions 
(RPTs) 
or 
subsequent 
modifications 
thereto. Such approval can be in the form 
of omnibus approval of RPTs subject to 
conditions specified in Regulation 23 of 
SEBI Listing Regulations. 
	
	
(b)	 Review of Related Party Transactions on a 
quarterly basis.
	
ii.	
Review of internal control systems, policies 
and procedures under SEBI (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 as amended 
from time to time.
	
iii.	
Perform other activities as required by law or 
determined by the Board.
	
iv.	
Approval of appointment of Chief Financial 
Officer (“CFO”) after assessing his qualification, 
experience & background etc.
	
v.	
Reviewing, with the management, the statement 
of uses/ application of funds raised through an 
issue (public issue, rights issue, preferential 
issue, etc.), the statement of funds utilised for 
purposes other than those stated in the offer 
document/ prospectus/ notice and the report 
submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring 
the utilisation of proceeds of a public or rights 
issue and making appropriate recommendations 
to the Board to take up steps in this matter.
	
vi.	
To look into the reasons for substantial defaults 
in the payment to the depositors, debenture, 
holders, shareholders (in case of non-payment of 
declared dividends) and creditors.
	
vii.	 Institute 
and 
oversee 
special 
investigations as needed.
	
viii.	 Periodically report to the Board or Committee 
of the Board inter alia all significant matters that 
have come to the knowledge of the Committee, 
covering internal controls, financial statements, 
policies and statutory/ regulatory compliances.
	
ix.	
Consider and comment on rational, cost benefits 
and impact of schemes involving merger, 
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
118
119
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
demerger, amalgamation etc., in the listed entity 
and its shareholders.
	
x.	
Self-evaluation of the Committee’s performance 
once every year.
	
F.	
General
	
i.	
Develop, with the appropriate assistance from 
the statutory auditors, the internal auditors and 
management, an annual audit plan, internal audit 
plan and other plans/ matters to be reviewed as 
part of the responsibilities of the Committee.
	
ii.	
Perform such other role as mandated to the 
Committee by the Board of Directors and under 
the applicable rules/ regulations/ laws.
	
G.	
Whistle Blower
	
	
To oversee and review the Whistle Blower 
function established by the Company to report 
the genuine concerns against the suspected 
or confirmed fraudulent activities, allegations 
of corruption, violation of the Company’s Code 
of Conduct. Your Company provides adequate 
safeguards against victimisation of persons 
who use this mechanism. Such persons shall 
have direct access to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee when appropriate.
	
	
The Company has a Whistleblower Policy 
in place, which is publicly available on its 
official website, which allows employees and 
stakeholders to report genuine concerns through 
secure and confidential channels, including 
a dedicated helpline number and email ID 
mentioned in the policy.
	
	
While the Company does not currently use a 
third-party web portal, the internal channels are 
actively monitored to ensure timely resolution. 
The 
mechanism 
is 
designed 
to 
maintain 
confidentiality and protect whistleblowers against 
any form of retaliation.
	
	
To enhance awareness, flyers highlighting the 
mechanism are displayed at key locations 
across office premises. Further, periodic Code 
of Conduct trainings include a dedicated 
segment 
on 
whistleblower 
protection 
and 
reporting procedures.
The Company has introduced “Voice 
of EFL”—an internal initiative that 
allows employees to anonymously 
share feedback and suggestions for 
improvement, further strengthening the 
culture of openness and transparency.
	
	
The meetings of Audit Committee are also 
attended by the Chief Financial Officer, Statutory 
Auditors and Internal Auditor as special invitees. 
The minutes of each Audit Committee meeting 
are placed in the next meeting of the Board. 
The Audit Committee also meets the Internal 
and Statutory Auditors separately, without the 
presence of Management representatives.
	
	
The Audit Committee met 05 (Five) times 
during the Financial Year 2024-25 on May 28, 
2024, August 08, 2024, November 07, 2024, 
February 06, 2025 and February 10, 2025 and the 
attendance record of the Members is as follows:
Name of the 
Member
Category
Attendance
Mr. Vinod Rao 
(Chairman)
Non-Executive, 
Independent
5/5
Mrs. Gurveen 
Singh
Non-Executive, 
Independent
5/5
Mr. Sahil Dalal
Non-Executive, 
Non-
Independent
5/5
	
	
Further, Ms. Pragya Kaul, Company Secretary 
& 
Compliance 
Officer 
acts 
as 
Secretary 
to the Committee.
II.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
	
Introduction
	
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee is 
responsible 
for 
formulating 
evaluation 
policies 
and reviewing all major aspects of the Company’s 
HR processes relating to hiring, training, talent 
management, 
succession 
planning 
and 
the 
compensation structure of the Directors, KMP, and 
Senior Management. The Committee also anchored 
the performance evaluation of the Individual Directors. 
None of the recommendations made by the Committee 
were rejected by the Board.
	
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for, inter alia, appointment and approval 
of remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and Senior Management Personnel. It also 
manages the succession planning for Board members 
and Senior Management Personnel.
	
Key terms of Reference of the Committee are:
	
1.	
Formulation of the criteria for determining 
qualifications, 
positive 
attributes 
and 
independence of a Director and recommend to 
the Board of Directors a policy relating to, the 
remuneration of the Directors, key managerial 
personnel and other employees;
	
2.	
Formulation 
of 
criteria 
for 
evaluation 
of 
performance of Independent Directors and the 
Board of Directors;
	
3.	
Devising a policy on diversity of Board of Directors;
	
4.	
Identifying persons who are qualified to become 
Directors and who may be appointed in senior 
management in accordance with the criteria laid 
down, and recommend to the Board of Directors 
their appointment and removal;
	
5.	
Whether to extend or continue the term of 
appointment of the Independent Director, on the 
basis of the report of performance evaluation of 
Independent Directors;
	
6.	
Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in 
whatever form, payable to senior management.
	
The Committee also plays the role of Compensation 
Committee and is responsible for administering Eureka 
Forbes – Employee Stock Option Plan 2022 (“Stock 
Option Schemes”) as applicable to the employees 
of the Company.
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee met 
04 (Four) times during the Financial Year 2024-25 on 
May 28, 2024, August 08, 2024, November 07, 2024 
and February 10, 2025.
Name of the 
Member
Category
Attendance
Mrs. Gurveen 
Singh 
(Chairperson)
Non-Executive, 
Independent
4/4
Mr. Vinod Rao
Non-Executive, 
Independent
4/4
Mr. Homi Katgara
Non-Executive, 
Independent
2/4
Mr. Sahil Dalal
Non-Executive, 
Non-Independent
4/4
	
Further, Ms. Pragya Kaul, Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer acts as Secretary to the Committee.
	
Remuneration Policy
	
Your Company’s Nomination & Remuneration Policy 
for Directors and Senior Managerial Personnel has 
been approved by the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee and the Board. It is driven by the success 
and performance of individual employees and the 
Company. Through its compensation programme, the 
Company endeavours to attract, retain, develop, and 
motivate a high-performance workforce.
	
The purpose of the Remuneration Policy is to establish 
and govern the procedures applicable.
	
•	
To evaluate the performance of the members 
of the Board.
	
•	
To ensure remuneration payable to Directors, 
KMP’s & other Senior Management strike an 
appropriate balance and are commensurate 
among others with the functioning of the Company 
and its long-term objectives.
	
•	
To retain, motivate, and promote talent within 
the Company, and to ensure the long-term 
sustainability of the managerial persons and 
create competitive advantage.
	
The policy inter alia covers the Directors’ appointment 
and remuneration, Key Managerial Personnel, and other 
senior management’s appointment and remuneration.
	
The Remuneration Policy as required under Section 
178 of the Companies Act, 2013, is available on the 
website of the Company and can be accessed at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/media/investor-relations/
Nomination-and-Remuneration_Policy.pdf.
 
Performance Evaluation of the Board and its 
Criteria
	
The Company remains committed to upholding the 
highest standards of Corporate Governance through 
continuous monitoring and oversight mechanisms. 
With a well-balanced Board comprising individuals with 
diverse skill sets and expertise, the Company ensures 
objective evaluation and informed decision-making.
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, SEBI Listing 
Regulations and Nomination & Remuneration Policy, 
the Board has carried out annual evaluation of its 
performance, its Committee(s) and of each Director. 
The process of performance Evaluation was anchored 
by the Chairman of the Board and Chairperson of the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee.
	
The 
evaluation 
is 
carried 
out 
using 
detailed 
questionnaires aligned with the Guidance Note issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) 
and the requirements prescribed by SEBI.
	
The performance of the Board as a whole was 
evaluated by each Director on parameters such 
as its roles and responsibilities, contribution to 
the development of strategy and effective risk 
management, understanding of business operations, 
availability of quality information in a timely manner, 
etc. and submitted.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
120
121
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
	
Board Committees were evaluated by the respective 
Committee members on parameters such as its role 
and responsibilities, effectiveness of the Committee 
vis-a-vis assigned role, appropriateness of Committee 
composition, timely receipt of information by the 
Committee, upgrading knowledge by the Committee 
members, effectiveness of communication by the 
Committee with the Board, Senior Management and 
Key Managerial Personnel etc.
	
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by 
the Independent Directors on the parameters such 
as demonstration of effective leadership, contribution 
to the Board’s work, communication with the Board, 
use of time and overall efficiency of Board Meetings, 
quality of discussions at the Board Meetings etc.
	
The Directors were evaluated individually by all 
other Directors (except the Director himself/herself); 
Non- executive Directors evaluated Independent 
Directors and vice versa on various parameters. 
Independent Directors were additionally evaluated 
for their performance and fulfilment of criteria 
of independence and their independence from 
the Management.
	
The Meeting of Independent Directors was held on 
March 11, 2025. The Independent Directors, inter alia, 
evaluated performance of Non-Independent Directors, 
the Chairman of the Company and the Board as a whole 
and the results of the Board evaluation and the overall 
performance of the Board were discussed candidly. 
Key observations and suggestions emerging from this 
meeting were duly placed before the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and the Board for further 
deliberation and action, as appropriate. They also 
assessed the quality, content and timeliness of flow of 
information between the Management and the Board 
that is necessary for the Board to effectively and 
reasonably perform its duties.
	
The Board Evaluation discussion was focussed on 
how to make the Board more effective as a collective 
body in the context of the business and the external 
environment in which the Company functions. 
From time to time during the year, the Board was 
apprised of relevant business issues and related 
opportunities and risks. The Board discussed various 
aspects of its functioning and that of its Committees 
such as structure, composition, meetings, functions 
and interaction with management and what needs to 
be done to further augment the effectiveness of the 
Board’s functioning.
	
The overall assessment of the Board was that it 
was functioning as a cohesive body including the 
Committees of the Board. During Financial Year 
2024-25, the Company actioned the feedback 
from the Board evaluation process conducted in 
Financial Year 2024-25.
	
The Board noted the key improvement areas emerging 
from this exercise in Financial Year 2024-25 and 
action plans to address the same are in progress. 
These include Business Strategy, Business Continuity 
Plan and other matters.
III.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee (SRC)
	
Introduction
	
The SRC oversees the various aspects of interests of 
security holders of the Company. The Committee also 
monitors the performance of the Registrar & Share 
Transfer Agent and recommends measures for overall 
improvement of the quality of investor services as 
and when the need arises. None of recommendations 
made by the Committee were rejected by the Board.
	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee specifically 
looks into various aspects of interest of the stakeholders. 
The Company has a Board-level Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee to examine and redress 
investors’ complaints. The status on complaints and 
share transfers are reported to the entire Board.
	
Key Terms of Reference of the Committee are:
	
1.	
Resolving the grievances of the security holders 
of the listed entity including complaints related 
to transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt 
of Annual Report, non-receipt of declared 
dividends, issue of new/duplicate certificates, 
general meetings etc.
	
2.	
Review of measures taken for effective exercise 
of voting rights by shareholders.
	
3.	
Review of adherence to the service standards 
adopted by the listed entity in respect of various 
services being rendered by the Registrar & Share 
Transfer Agent.
	
4.	
Review of the various measures and initiatives 
taken by the listed entity for reducing the 
quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring 
timely receipt of dividend warrants/Annual 
Reports/statutory notices by the shareholders 
of the Company.
	
The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee met once 
during the FY 2024-25 on February 10, 2025.
Name of the 
Member
Category
Attendance
Mr. Arvind Uppal 
(Chairman)
Non-Executive, 
Non-Independent
1/1
Mr. Vinod Rao
Non-Executive, 
Independent
1/1
Mr. Pratik Pota
Managing Director 
& CEO
1/1
Mrs. Gurveen 
Singh
Non-Executive, 
Independent
1/1
Mr. Shashank 
Samant
Non-Executive, 
Independent
1/1
	
Further, Ms. Pragya Kaul, Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer acts as Secretary to the Committee.
	
The status of investor grievance redressal mechanism 
as required under the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 
is filed with the Stock Exchange within twenty-one 
days from the end of each quarter. A statement giving 
the number of investor complaints pending at the 
beginning of the quarter, those received during the 
quarter, disposed of during the quarter and those 
remaining unresolved at the end of the quarter is placed 
before the Committee and the Board periodically. 
There were no instances where the grievance was not 
solved to the satisfaction of the shareholders.
	
Details of the complaints received from shareholders 
during Financial Year 2024-25 are as follows:
Number of  
Complaints received
Number of  
Complaints resolved
Number of  
pending Complaints:
4
4
0
IV.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (CSR)
	
Introduction
	
The 
CSR 
Committee’s 
responsibilities 
include 
developing the CSR Policy and the activities that the 
Company will engage in. The CSR Committee also 
recommends to the Board the amount of spending 
to be made on CSR activities of the Company, and 
evaluates the Company’s performance in these areas. 
None of the recommendations made by the Committee 
were rejected by the Board.
	
Further, the CSR Committee also recommends, 
reviews and monitors the impact and progress of CSR 
initiatives taken by the Company.
	
Key Terms of Reference of the Committee are:
	
1.	
Formulate and recommend to the Board the CSR 
Policy and activities to be undertaken
	
2.	
Recommend the amount of expenditure to be 
incurred on CSR activities
	
3.	
Formulate and review the Annual Action Plan in 
pursuance of the CSR Policy
	
4.	
Oversee the manner of execution of projects or 
programmes; the modalities of utilisation of funds 
and implementation
	
5.	
Schedules for the projects/programmes
	
6.	
Monitoring and reporting mechanism for the 
projects/programmes
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee met 
04 (Four) times during the Financial Year 2024-25 on 
May 28, 2024, August 08, 2024, November 07, 2024 
and February 10, 2025.
Name of the 
Member
Category
Attendance
Mrs. Gurveen Singh 
(Chairperson)
Non-Executive, 
Independent
4/4
Mr. Vinod Rao
Non-Executive, 
Independent
4/4
Mr. Pratik Pota
Managing 
Director & CEO
4/4
Mr. Homi Katgara
Non-Executive, 
Independent
2/4
	
Further, Ms. Pragya Kaul, Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer acts as Secretary to the Committee.
v. 
Risk Management Committee (RMC)
	
Introduction
	
The Risk Management Committee (‘RMC’) inter alia 
formulates the Enterprise Risk Management Policy and 
reviews the same periodically; monitors and oversees 
implementation of the Policy, including evaluating 
the adequacy of risk management systems; ensures 
appropriate methodology, processes, and systems are 
in place to monitor and evaluate business risks, informs 
the Board about its discussions, recommendations, 
and actions to be taken; and appoints the Chief Risk 
Officer, including terms of remuneration. None of 
the recommendations made by the Committee were 
rejected by the Board.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
122
123
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
	
Risk Management Committee assists the Board in 
monitoring and reviewing the risk management plan 
and implementation of the risk management and 
mitigation framework of the Company. The Company 
has an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework 
in place, which not only addresses the business needs 
but also facilitates identifying, evaluating, mitigating 
and monitoring potential risks that may impact the 
realisation of strategic and business objectives.
	
In each meeting of the Risk Management Committee 
(RMC), the risk rating methodology for identified risks 
is reviewed to assess the current risk level—whether it 
remains low, medium, or high—and to determine if any 
reclassification or escalation is warranted. Additionally, 
one key risk is taken up for a detailed deep dive in 
every meeting, allowing the Committee to thoroughly 
evaluate its potential impact, existing controls, and 
any further mitigation measures required. This ongoing 
review helps maintain an accurate and up-to-date risk 
profile for the Company.
	
Notably, all members of the Audit Committee are also 
part of the RMC, ensuring that the Audit Committee 
remains fully informed about the Company’s risk 
landscape and can provide effective oversight. 
	
The Risk Management Committee also safeguards 
the shareholders’ interests and the Company’s assets, 
reviews reports from the Company’s internal audit 
function relating to risk management, and all other 
matters specified under the Act, Listing Regulations or 
any other role as may be prescribed by law or by the 
Board of Directors from time to time.
	
Key Terms of Reference of the Committee are:
	
1.	
To formulate a detailed risk management policy 
which shall include:
	
	
a.	
A framework for identification of internal 
and external risks specifically faced by 
the listed entity, in particular including risk 
related to Regulatory / Compliance, Market 
Risk, Consumer / Reputation, Supply Chain 
Risk, Information / Cyber Security, People 
Risk or any other risk as may be determined 
by the Committee.
	
	
b.	
Measures for risk mitigation including 
systems and processes for internal control 
of identified risks.
	
	
c.	
Business continuity plan.
	
2.	
To 
ensure 
that 
appropriate 
methodology, 
processes and systems are in place to monitor 
and evaluate risks associated with the business 
of the Company;
	
3.	
To monitor and oversee implementation of the 
risk management policy, including evaluating the 
adequacy of risk management systems;
	
4.	
To periodically review the risk management 
policy, at least once in two years, including by 
considering the changing industry dynamics and 
evolving complexity;
	
5.	
To keep the Board of Directors informed about 
the nature and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions to be taken;
	
6.	
The 
appointment, 
removal 
and 
terms 
of 
remuneration 
of 
the 
Chief 
Risk 
Officer 
shall be subject to review by the Risk 
Management Committee.
	
The Risk Management Committee met 02 (Twice) 
during the Financial Year 2024-25 on August 26, 2024 
and February 10, 2025.
Name of the 
Member
Category
Attendance
Mr. Vinod Rao 
(Chairman)
Non-Executive, 
Independent
2/2
Mr. Arvind Uppal
Non-Executive, 
Non-Independent
2/2
Mr. Sahil Dalal
Non-Executive, 
Non-Independent
2/2
Mrs. Gurveen 
Singh
Non-Executive, 
Independent
2/2
Mr. Shashank 
Samant
Non-Executive, 
Independent
2/2
	
Further, Ms. Pragya Kaul, Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer acts as Secretary to the Committee.
4.	
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
	
Remuneration paid to Managing Director & CEO:
	
Mr. Pratik Pota was appointed as the Managing 
Director & CEO of the Company with effect from 
August 16, 2022. The annual remuneration package 
of Mr. Pota constitutes a fixed salary component 
including allowances/reimbursements; a variable 
pay component  and stock options as approved by 
the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the 
Board of Directors, from time to time. The Commission 
is performance-linked and such other parameters as 
may be fixed by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and Board from time to time. All other 
components are fixed.
	
The details of the remuneration paid to the Managing Director & CEO in the Financial Year 2024-25 is reproduced below:
Particulars
Amount 
(` In Lakhs)
Salary & Perquisites
745.21
Contribution to retiral benefits
28.52
Total
773.73
	
Notes:
	
1. The variable pay of Managing Director & CEO is paid annually which is determined by NRC after factoring in KPIs achieved and 
the Company’s performance.
	
2. The appointment of the Managing Director & CEO is contractual in nature. He may resign by giving 06 (Six) months written notice 
without assigning any reason whatsoever. The Company can terminate the appointment by giving 06 (Six) months written notice 
without assigning any reason whatsoever.
 
Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors:
	
Non-Executive Directors are remunerated by way of sitting fees for attending the meetings and an annual commission. 
The criteria for making payment to The Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors are available on website 
of the Company at www.eurekaforbes.com/media/Code_of_Conduct_for_Non_Executive_Director.pdf.
	
Details of the Sitting Fees and Commission paid to Non-Executive Directors in the Financial Year 2024-25 is 
mentioned below:
(in `)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Sitting Fees
Commission
Total
1
Mr. Arvind Uppal
2,15,000
27,00,000
29,15,000
2
Mr. Sahil Dalal
NA
NA
NA
3
Mr. Vinod Rao
2,60,000
27,00,000
29,60,000
4
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
2,60,000
27,00,000
29,60,000
5
Mr. Homi Katgara
90,000
27,00,000
27,90,000
6
Mr. Shashank Samant
1,35,000
27,00,000
28,35,000
	
The Commission payable to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company for the Financial Year 2024-25 is ` 27,00,000 
per Director. Mr. Sahil Dalal has waived his right to sitting fees and commission.
	
Other Terms
	
During the year under review, there were no other pecuniary transactions or relationships of Non-Executive Directors 
with the Company. The Company has not granted any stock options of the Company to any of its Non-Executive 
Directors during the year under review.
5.	
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
	
Details in respect of the General Meetings of the Company held during the last three years are as follows:
Date of the 
Meeting (Years)
Venue
Time
Special Resolution passed
September 20, 
2024
(15th Annual 
General Meeting)
The meeting was 
conducted through Video 
Conferencing and Other 
Audio Visual Means. The 
deemed venue of the 
meeting was the registered 
office of the Company.
12:00 
Noon IST
-
September 22, 
2023
(14th Annual 
General Meeting)
The meeting was 
conducted through Video 
Conferencing and Other 
Audio Visual Means. The 
deemed venue of the 
meeting was the registered 
office of the Company.
10:00 AM 
IST
•	 To consider and approve waiver of excess 
Managerial Remuneration to former Managing 
Director & Chief Executive Officer
•	 To consider and approve waiver of excess 
Managerial Remuneration to Managing Director 
& Chief Executive Officer (Managing Director & 
CEO)
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
124
125
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Date of the 
Meeting (Years)
Venue
Time
Special Resolution passed
•	 Approval of Payment of Commission to the Non-
Executive Directors of the Company
•	 To consider and approve the overall managerial 
remuneration of the Directors of the Company
April 19, 2023 
(Extra Ordinary 
General Meeting)
The meeting was 
conducted through Video 
Conferencing and Other 
Audio Visual Means. The 
deemed venue of the 
meeting was the registered 
office of the Company
10:00 AM 
IST
•	 Approval of proposed grant of Stock Options 
equal to or exceeding 1% (One Percent) of issued 
capital of the Company under Eureka Forbes - 
Employee Stock Option Plan 2022 at the time of 
grant to identified employee(s)
December 22, 2022
(13th Annual 
General Meeting)
The meeting was 
conducted through Video 
Conferencing and Other 
Audio Visual Means. The 
deemed venue of the 
meeting was the registered 
office of the Company
04:00 PM 
IST
•	 Appointment 
of 
Mr. 
Shashank 
Samant 
(DIN: 
09733485) 
as 
Non-Executive 
and 
Independent Director
•	 Payment 
of 
Commission 
to 
Non-Executive 
Directors
•	 Consideration and approval of payment of 
Managerial Remuneration and waiver of excess 
Managerial Remuneration payable to Managing 
Director & Chief Executive Officer (Managing 
Director & CEO)
6.	
POSTAL BALLOT
	
No resolution was passed through postal ballot 
during the year under review. None of the businesses 
proposed to be transacted at the ensuing AGM 
requires the passing of a special resolution 
through postal ballot.
7.	
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
 
Website, News & Events
	
The Company makes a constant effort to maintain 
the highest level of transparency in the interest of its 
stakeholders. The Company upholds the regularity 
and volume of its disclosures to the general public. 
The Company conducts frequent meetings with 
Investors and Analysts to update them on the progress 
of the Company.
	
The Company remains committed to transparent 
and 
proactive 
communication 
with 
its 
shareholders and investors.
	
Support During AGM
	
Speaker shareholders are guided on technical aspects 
to ensure seamless participation in the AGM.
	
IEPF Outreach
	
Proactive efforts are made to reach out to shareholders 
with unclaimed shares, assisting them in the 
IEPF claim process.
	
Website
	
A separate dedicated section under ‘lnvestors’ at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations 
gives 
information on applicable policies including policy 
on dealing with related-party transactions which is at 
www.eurekaforbes.com along with news and events 
held during the year of the Company.
	
A separate dedicated section under ‘Investors’ section 
on the Company’s website at www.eurekaforbes.com 
gives information on policy for determining material 
subsidiary at www.eurekaforbes.com.
	
Publications in Newspapers
	
The quarterly, half-yearly and yearly financial results 
prepared in accordance with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (Ind-AS Rules) in 
the format prescribed under Regulation 33 of the Listing 
Regulations are sent to the Stock Exchanges where the 
shares of the Company are listed i.e. BSE Limited and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited. The results 
are normally published in “Financial Express” (English 
Daily) and “Mumbai Lakshadeep” (Marathi Daily) 
within 48 hours of the conclusion of the Meeting of the 
Board in which they are approved.
	
Financial Results
	
The results are displayed on the Company’s website 
www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/financial- 
information/eurekaforbes-ltd/.
	
Annual General Meeting
	
The proceedings of the General Meetings are 
also 
available 
on 
the 
Company’s 
website 
at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/
shareholders-information/annual-general-meeting
 
Press Releases, Analysts Calls and Investor Day
	
Other information, such as Press Release and 
Presentations made to investors and analysts etc. 
is regularly updated on the Company’s website.
	
The Company holds analyst calls in each quarter, to 
apprise and make public the information relating to the 
Company’s working and future outlook.
	
The Company conducts Investor Day to share strategic 
insights with institutional investors, while the Investor 
Relations team maintains regular communication to 
address queries and gather feedback.
	
The required disclosures were made to the Stock 
Exchange and were uploaded on the website of the 
Company at www.eurekaforbes.com.
	
Common Online Dispute Redressal Mechanism by 
SEBI
	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
has issued multiple circulars to introduce and 
implement a Common Online Dispute Resolution 
(ODR) mechanism for facilitating the online resolution 
of grievances, complaints, and disputes in the Indian 
securities market.
	
Below is a summary of the relevant SEBI circulars:
Circular Number
Date
SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/
CIR/2023/131
July 31, 2023
SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/
CIR/2023/135
August 4, 2023
SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/
CIR/P/2023/156
September 20, 2023
SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-3/P/
CIR/2023/191
December 20, 2023
	
Through these circulars, SEBI has not only laid 
the foundation for a unified digital platform to 
handle investor grievances but also integrated it 
with the existing SCORES platform to streamline 
redressal processes.
	
The ODR Portal offers members an additional 
mechanism to resolve their grievances, complaints, 
and disputes efficiently.
 
Level 1: Approach RTA or the Company
	
At 
the 
initial 
stage, 
all 
grievances/disputes/ 
complaints are required to be directly lodged with 
the RTA/the Company. The Member(s) may send 
an email to rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com or 
compliance@eurekaforbes.com or send the physical 
correspondence addressed to M/s. MUFG Intime 
India Private Limited (Formerly known as Link Intime 
India Private Limited) (Unit: Eureka Forbes Limited), 
C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West), 
Mumbai - 400 083.
 
Level 2: Escalate to SEBI SCORES Platform
	
In case the grievances/disputes/complaints are not 
redressed to the satisfaction of the Member(s) at 
Level 1, then the Member(s) may escalate the same 
on the SEBI Complaints Redress System (“SCORES”) 
Platform at www.scores.gov.in in accordance with the 
process laid out therein.
 
Level 3: Initiate Dispute Resolution Process on 
ODR Platform
	
In case the grievances/disputes/complaints of the 
Member(s) are not resolved at Level 1/Level 2, then 
the ODR Process may be initiated through the ODR 
Portal within the applicable timeframe under law.
8.	
SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION
	
16th (Sixteenth) Annual General Meeting (through 
Video Conference/Other Audio-Visual Means)
	
Day & Date: Friday, September 19, 2025
	
Time: 12:00 noon IST
	
Venue: The 16th Annual General Meeting of the 
Company (‘AGM’) is being conducted through VC/ 
OAVM facility and the deemed venue for the AGM 
shall be the Registered Office of the Company.
	
Book Closure date: Not Applicable
	
Dividend Payment date: Not Applicable
	
Financial year: The Financial Year of the Company is 
from April 01 to March 31.
Stock Exchanges
ISIN
Stock Code
BSE Limited – 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy 
Towers, Dalal 
Street, Fort, 
Mumbai – 400 001
INE0KCE01017
543482
National Stock 
Exchange of 
India Limited* - 
Exchange Plaza, 
C-1, Block - G, 
Bandra Kurla 
Complex, Bandra 
(East), Mumbai – 
400051
INE0KCE01017
EUREKAFORB
	
* The equity shares of the Company got listed on 
September 11, 2024.
	
Your Company has paid the Listing fees to the Stock 
Exchange for the Financial Year 2024-25 for Equity 
Shares within the stipulated time.
	
In case the securities are suspended from trading, 
the directors report shall explain the reason thereof 
– Not Applicable
	
Registrar & Transfer Agents
	
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (Formerly known as 
Link Intime India Private Limited)
	
C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West), 
Mumbai - 400 083
	
Phone: +91 22 4918 6000
	
E-mail: rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com
	
Contact Person: Mr. Ishwar Suvarna
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
126
127
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
	
Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2025
Category (Shares)
No. of 
Shareholders
% to total 
shareholders
No. of Shares
% to total no. of 
shareholders
Upto 500
23,867
75.79
25,95,915
1.34
501 to 1000
3,348
10.63
24,74,470
1.28
1001 to 2000
2,057
6.53
27,86,732
1.44
2001 to 3000
689
2.19
17,53,845
0.91
3001 to 4000
285
0.91
10,07,340
0.52
4001 to 5000
244
0.77
11,17,904
0.58
5001 to 10000
509
1.62
36,62,866
1.89
10001 and above
493
1.57
17,80,80,168
92.04
Total
31,492
100.00
19,34,79,240
100.00
 
Shareholding base expanded significantly since listing
25 to 157 (6.3x)
Institutional Shareholders
13.5k to 30.6k (2.3x)
Non-Institutional Shareholders
	
Shareholding Pattern as on March 31, 2025
Sr. No. Category
No. of Shares
% of Shareholding
A
Promoter Holding
1
Promoter & Promoter Group
12,10,41,730
62.56
Sub-Total (A)
12,10,41,730
62.56
B
Non-Promoter Holding
1
Institutional Investor
1.1
Mutual Fund
75,50,595
3.90
1.2
Alternate Investment Funds
26,79,819
1.39
1.3
Foreign Portfolio Investor
2,42,41,208
12.53
	
Share Transfer System
	
All share transfer and other communications regarding 
share certificates, change of address, dividends, 
etc. should be addressed to the Registrar and 
Transfer Agent (RTA).
	
In terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations, effective from 
April 1, 2019, securities of listed companies can only 
be transferred in dematerialised form except where 
the claim is lodged for transmission or transposition 
of shares or where the transfer deed(s) was lodged 
prior to April 1, 2019 and returned due to deficiency 
in the documents. SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/ RTAMB/CIR/P/2020/166 dated September 7, 
2020 has instructed companies to not accept transfer 
requests in physical form with effect from March 31, 
2021. Hence, the Company has not accepted any 
document for transfer of shares in physical form post 
March 31, 2021.
	
Shareholders are advised to dematerialise their 
shares held by them in physical form at the earliest. 
Requests 
for 
dematerialisation 
of 
shares 
are 
processed by RTA and confirmation thereof is given 
to the respective depositories i.e. National Securities 
Depository Limited (“NSDL”) and Central Depository 
Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”) within the statutory 
time limit from the date of receipt of share certificates, 
provided the documents are complete in all respects.
Promoter Holding
Mutual Fund
Alternate Investment Funds
Foreign Portfolio Investor
Financial Institutions / Banks
Central / State Government(s)
Non-Institutions
62.56%
17.04%
0.86%
1.72%
12.53%
1.39%
3.90%
Shareholding Pattern
Dematerialisation & Liquidity of Shares
As on March 31, 2025, 98.35% of the total issued share capital was held in dematerialised form with NSDL and CDSL, and 
the break-up is as follows:
94.65%
1.65%
3.70%
Sr. No. Category
No. of Shares
% of Shareholding
1.4
Financial Institutions / Banks
33,32,114
1.72
1.5
Foreign Bank
1,950
0.00
2
Central / State Government(s)
16,55,545
0.86
Sub-Total (B)
3,94,61,231
20.40
Non-Institutions
1
Bodies Corporate/LLP
81,21,569
4.19
2
Non-Resident Indians
8,93,533
0.46
3
Individuals/HUF/Trust/Others
2,39,61,177
12.39
Sub-Total (C)
3,29,76,279
17.04
Grand Total (A+B+C)
19,34,79,240
100.00
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
128
129
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
	
Plant Locations:
	
Dehradun:
Khasra Number 3946, 3961 & 3962, Lal Tappar 
Industrial Area, Majri Grant, Dehradun-Haridwar 
Highway, Tehsil – Rishikesh, Dist. – Dehradun, 
Uttarakhand – 248 140
	
Bengaluru:
Plot No. 143, C-4, Bommasandra Industrial Area, 
Hosur Road, Bengaluru – 560 099
	
Address for Correspondence:
Ms. Pragya Kaul is the Company Secretary 
& 
Compliance 
Officer 
of 
the 
Company. 
The correspondence address of the Company is:
Registered Office – B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon 
Innova, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, 
Mumbai, Maharashtra – 400013, India.
Phone: +91 22 4882 1700
Fax: +91 22 4882 1701
Website: www.eurekaforbes.com
E-mail: compliance@eurekaforbes.com
The Company welcomes all the members to 
communicate with the Company as per the above 
details or through the Company’s Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent (RTA): 
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (Formerly known as 
Link Intime India Private Limited)
C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West), 
Mumbai - 400 083
Phone: +91 22 4918 6000
E-mail: rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com
	
Outstanding 
ADRs/GDRs/Warrants 
or 
any 
convertible instruments, conversion date and likely 
impact on equity
The Company does not have any outstanding Global 
Depository Receipts or American Depository Receipts 
or warrants or any convertible instruments.
	
Credit Ratings
	
CARE
CARE 
has 
upgraded 
the 
Ratings 
to 
the 
Company as follows:
Facilities
Ratings
Remarks
Long term Bank 
Facilities
CARE AA-, 
Stable
Upgraded from 
CARE A+; Stable
Issuer Ratings
CARE AA-, 
Stable
Upgraded from 
CARE A+; Stable
	
CRISIL
CRISIL 
has 
provided 
the 
following 
Rating 
to the Company:
Facilities
Ratings
Remarks
Corporate Credit 
Rating
AA-/Stable
Assigned for 
the first-time
During the year under review, CARE Ratings Limited 
upgraded the Company’s Long-Term Bank Facilities 
Rating and Issuer Rating from CARE A+/Stable 
to CARE AA-/Stable. This marks the Company’s 
second consecutive rating upgrade in the year 
2024, reflecting its strong financial performance and 
consistent progress.
Additionally, CRISIL Ratings Limited assigned a 
Corporate Credit Rating of AA-/Stable to the Company 
for the first time, further endorsing its creditworthiness 
and financial stability.
The 
details 
of 
Credit 
Rating 
are 
available 
on 
the 
website 
of 
the 
Company 
at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/
shareholders-information/credit-rating.
FY 2024-25
1.65%
31,88,055
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
  No. of Shares   
  %
Reduction in physical holding
2.15%
1.85%
1.72%
41,51,475
35,82,375
33,32,355
9.	
OTHER DISCLOSURES
	
(a)	 Disclosures 
on 
materially 
related 
party 
transactions that may have potential conflict 
with the interests of listed entity at large
	
	
During the Financial Year 2024-25, there was no 
materially related party transaction that may have 
potential conflict with the interests of the Company 
at large. For reference, the details of related party 
transactions in accordance with IND AS–24 are 
given in Note No. 34 of Notes to Accounts of 
the Annual Report. The Policy on Materiality of 
RPTs and dealing with RPTs as approved by the 
Board is uploaded on the Company’s website at 
the web link www.eurekaforbes.com/cms/assets/
prod/Policy_on_Materiality_of_Related_Party_
Transactions_and_on_dealing_with_Related_
Party_Transactions.pdf.
 
 
During the year under review,
	
1.	
all RPTs entered into by the Company, were 
approved by the Audit Committee and were 
in the ordinary course of business and at 
arm’s length basis. The Audit Committee 
also 
granted 
prior 
omnibus 
approval 
for RPTs which would be in the ordinary 
course of business and on an arm’s length 
basis that are repetitive in nature and also 
for unforeseen transactions, in line with 
the Policy on Dealing with and Materiality 
of Related Party Transactions and the 
applicable provisions of the Act read 
with the Rules issued thereunder and the 
Listing Regulations (including any statutory 
modification(s) 
and/or 
re-enactment(s) 
thereof for the time being in force).
	
2.	
the Audit Committee reviewed on a quarterly 
basis, the details of RPTs, entered into by 
the Company pursuant to the omnibus 
approval granted.
	
3.	
the Company did not enter into any material 
RPTs nor did it enter into any significant 
transaction with its related parties that may 
have a potential conflict with the interests 
of the Company.
	
4.	
the RPTs undertaken by the Company 
were in compliance with the provisions set 
out in the Act read with the Rules issued 
thereunder and relevant provisions of the 
Listing Regulations.
	
5.	
Pursuant to Regulation 23(9) of the Listing 
Regulations, 
the 
Company 
had 
filed 
the half-yearly reports on related party 
transactions with the stock exchanges 
on 
which 
the 
equity 
shares 
of 
the 
Company are listed.
	
(b)	 Details of non-compliance by the listed entity, 
penalties, strictures imposed on the listed 
entity by stock exchange(s) or the Board or 
any statutory authority, on any matter related 
to capital markets, during the last three years
	
The Company has not been penalised, nor have 
the stock exchanges, SEBI or any statutory 
authority imposed any strictures, during the 
last three years, on any matter relating to 
capital markets.
 
(c) Details of establishment of vigil mechanism / 
whistle blower policy, and affirmation that no 
personnel has been denied access to the audit 
Committee
	
The Company has adopted a Whistle Blower 
Policy which means alert/vigilant empowering 
any person associated with the organisation to 
file a grievance if he/she notices any irregularity. 
The Policy is available on the website of the 
Company at www.eurekaforbes.com/media/pdf/
whistle-blower-policy-v2.pdf. No person has 
been denied access to the Audit Committee 
for any grievance.
	
(d)	 Web link where policy for determining 
‘material’ subsidiaries is disclosed
	
	
The policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries 
is available on the website of the Company 
under “Codes & Policies” in the Corporate 
Governance section and can be accessed at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/cms/assets/prod/Policy_
on_Material_Subsidiary.pdf.
	
(e)	 Disclosure of commodity price risks and 
commodity hedging activities
	
The Company is exposed to the risks associated 
with volatility in foreign exchange rates mainly 
on account of import of finished goods and 
components. A robust planning and strategy 
ensures that the Company’s interest is protected 
despite volatility in foreign exchange rates and 
commodity prices. The Company does not 
enter into any derivative instruments for trading 
or speculative purposes. The Company has not 
entered into any commodity hedging activities. 
The details of unhedged foreign currency 
exposure as on March 31, 2025 are disclosed 
in the Note No. 40(c)(i) to the Standalone 
Financial Statements.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
130
131
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
	
(f)	
Details of utilisation of funds raised through 
preferential allotment or qualified institutions 
placement as specified under Regulation 
32(7A)
	
The Company did not raise any funds through 
preferential allotment or qualified institutions 
placement during the year.
 
(g) Certificate from a Company Secretary in 
practice that none of the Directors on the 
Board of the Company have been debarred 
or disqualified from being appointed or 
continuing as Directors of Companies by the 
Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any 
such statutory authority.
	
On 
the 
basis 
of 
written 
representations/
declaration received from the Directors, as on 
March 31, 2025, M/s Mihen Halani & Associates, 
Company Secretaries (Pee Review Certificate 
No. 6925/2025), have issued a certificate, 
confirming that none of the Directors on Board of 
the Company has been debarred or disqualified 
from being appointed or continuing as Director of 
companies by SEBI/MCA or any such authority 
and the same also forms part of this Report.
	
(h)	 Where the Board had not accepted any 
recommendation of any Committee of the 
Board which is mandatorily required, in 
the relevant financial year, the same to be 
disclosed along with reasons thereof
	
The Board accepted the recommendations of 
its Committees, wherever made, during the 
financial year.
 
(i) 
Total fees for all services paid by the listed 
entity and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated 
basis, to the statutory auditor and all entities 
in the network firm/network entity of which the 
statutory auditor is a part
	
The details of remuneration paid to the Statutory 
Auditor is given in Note No. 30 forming part of the 
Standalone Financial Statements. The statutory 
auditors and their network firm/network entity are 
not providing any services to the Subsidiaries 
of the Company.
	
(j)	
Disclosure of the extent to which the 
Discretionary Requirements as specified in 
Part E of schedule II have been adopted
	
a.	
The Board: The Company’s Chairman is 
a Non-Executive Director and is entitled 
to maintain the Chairman’s office at the 
Company’s expense and is also allowed 
reimbursement of expenses incurred in 
performance of his duties.
	
b.	
Shareholder Rights: Quarterly Financial 
Statements 
are 
published 
in 
leading 
newspapers and uploaded on Company’s 
website www.eurekaforbes.com.
 
c. 
Modified opinion(s) in audit report: 
Auditors have raised no qualification on the 
Financial Statements.
	
d.	
Separate 
posts 
of 
Chairman 
and 
the 
MD 
or 
CEO: 
Presently, 
Mr. Arvind Uppal is the Non-Executive 
Chairman and Mr. Pratik Pota is the 
Managing Director & CEO of the Company.
	
e.	
Reporting of M/s. PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Internal 
Auditor: 
The 
Company 
has 
appointed an Internal Auditor who has 
direct access to the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee.
	
(k)	 Disclosures of the compliance with Corporate 
Governance 
requirements 
specified 
in 
Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of 
sub regulation (2) of Regulation 46
	
The Company has complied with all the 
mandatory requirements specified in Regulations 
17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) 
of Regulation 46 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
	
Further, the certificate by Practicing Company 
Secretary with respect to compliance with 
Regulation 17 to 27 of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
relating to Corporate Governance, has been 
annexed to this Report.
 
(l) 
Policy for Prevention of Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace
	
The Company values the dignity of individuals and 
is committed to providing an environment, which 
is free of discrimination, intimidation and abuse. 
As per the requirement of the Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013 (‘POSH Act’) 
and Rules made thereunder, your Company has 
constituted Internal Complaint Committee (ICC) 
and has a well-defined policy. The Company 
has in place an effective mechanism for dealing 
with complaints relating to sexual harassment at 
workplace. During the year, the Company has not 
received any complaint under the Policy.
	
a.	
Number of complaints filed during the 
Financial Year – NIL
	
b.	
Number of complaints disposed of during 
the Financial Year – NIL
	
c.	
Number of complaints pending as on end of 
the Financial Year – NIL
	
Parameters of Statutory compliances evidencing 
the standards expected from a listed entity 
have been duly observed and a Report on 
Corporate Governance as well as the Certificate 
from Practicing Company Secretary confirming 
compliance with the requirements of SEBI Listing 
Regulations forms part of the Annual Report.
	
(p)	 Code of Conduct
	
The Company has formulated and adopted Code 
of Conduct for members of the Board of Directors 
and senior management personnel (which 
incorporates the duties of Independent Directors) 
as laid down in Schedule IV of the Act (‘Code 
for Independent Directors’) in accordance with 
Regulation 17(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
which is available at www.eurekaforbes.com/
media/investor-relations/Code_of_Conduct_for_
Board_of_Directors_and_Senior_Management_
Personnel.pdf. The Company has received 
confirmation from all members of the Board of 
Directors and Senior Management Personnel 
regarding compliance of the Code for the 
year under review. The declaration signed by 
Mr. Pratik Pota, Managing Director & CEO stating 
that the members of Board of Directors and 
senior management personnel have affirmed 
compliance with the Code of Conduct of Board 
of Directors and Senior Management Personnel 
is forming part of this report.
	
(q)	 Disclosure by listed entity and its subsidiaries 
of ‘Loans and advances in the nature of 
loans to firms/companies in which Directors 
are interested by name and amount’: Not 
Applicable
	
(r)	
Details 
of 
material 
subsidiaries 
of 
the 
listed entity; including the date and place 
of incorporation and the name and date of 
appointment of the statutory auditors of such 
subsidiaries: Not applicable
	
(s)	 Disclosure of agreements entered under 
Clause 5A of Paragraph A of Part A of Schedule 
III which are binding on Listed entities: Not 
applicable
10. Governance of Subsidiary Companies
The minutes of the Board Meetings of the subsidiary 
companies along with the details of significant 
transactions and arrangements entered into by the 
subsidiary companies are shared with the Board of 
Directors on a quarterly basis. The financial statements 
of the subsidiary companies are presented to the 
Audit Committee. As on the date of this Integrated 
Annual Report, the Company does not have a material 
subsidiary, having a net worth exceeding 10% of 
the consolidated net worth or income of 10% of the 
consolidated income of the Company. As per the 
requirements of Regulation 23 of Listing Regulations, 
omnibus approval of the Audit Committee is 
obtained for all material related party transactions of 
the Subsidiaries.
11. Other Significant Governance Practices
1.	
The Company regularly engages the Independent 
Directors in deep-dive sessions to boost their 
competence and understanding of the various 
topics integral to the Company’s business 
and functioning.
2.	
The Company uses an internal portal to manage 
& automate the overall compliance activities of 
the Company applicable to various functions.
3.	
The Company has adopted automated Contract 
management tool to manage contracts throughout 
the respective lifecycles and for maintaining an 
 
(m) Dividend Policy
	
The Company has adopted a Dividend Policy which has been displayed on the Company’s website and can be 
accessed at www.eurekaforbes.com/media/investor-relations/Dividend_Distribution_Policy.pdf.
	
(n)	 Legal Compliance Reporting
	
The Board of Directors reviews, on a quarterly basis, the report of compliance with respect to all applicable laws 
and regulations.
	
(o)	 Demat Suspense Account
	
The Company has a Suspense Escrow Demat Account pursuant to SEBI/HO/MIRSD/PoD-1/OW/P/2022/64923 
dated December 30, 2022.
Aggregate number of 
shareholders and the 
outstanding shares in 
the suspense account 
lying at the beginning of 
the year
Number of shareholders 
who approached listed 
entity for transfer of 
shares from suspense 
account during the year
Number of 
shareholders to 
whom shares were 
transferred from 
suspense account 
during the year
Aggregate number of 
shareholders and the 
outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying 
at the end of the year
2 shareholders holding
4,905 shares
0
0
4 shareholders holding
9,165 shares
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
132
133
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
12.	 Details of Corporate Policies along with the weblinks
Place: Gurugram
Date: August 11, 2025
On behalf of the Board of Directors of
Eureka Forbes Limited
Arvind Uppal
Chairman
(DIN: 00104992)
online repository of the enforced contracts and 
retain historical records of the contracts.
4.	
The Company uses an automated Insider Trading 
monitoring tool to ensure compliance with the SEBI 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations and 
to track trading activities of designated persons. 
Additionally, periodic sensitisation sessions are 
conducted for designated employees to reinforce 
awareness and understanding of their obligations 
under the Insider Trading Regulations.
5.	
As part of its inclusive and employee-centric 
governance 
practices, 
the 
Company 
has 
implemented 
several 
progressive 
policies, 
including a Creche Policy to support working 
parents, a POSH Policy to ensure a safe and 
harassment-free workplace, and a Transgender 
Policy to promote diversity and equal opportunity. 
Additionally, the Company has made its Code of 
Conduct and related policies easily accessible to 
all employees through its intranet, reinforcing a 
culture of ethics and accountability.
6.	
Quarterly 
Compliance 
certificates 
from 
all 
the Department Heads, giving the status of 
the compliances are placed before the Audit 
Committee and the Board.
DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF CONDUCT OF THE COMPANY BY 
THE BOARD MEMBERS AND SENIOR MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations]
I, Pratik Pota, Managing Director & CEO of Eureka Forbes Limited, hereby declare that all the members of the Board of 
Directors and the Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct of Board of Directors 
and Senior Management Personnel, applicable to them as laid down by the Board of Directors in terms of Regulation 26(3) 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025.
 	
On behalf of the Board of Directors of
Eureka Forbes Limited
Sd/-
Pratik Pota
Place: Mumbai 	
Managing Director & CEO
Date: August 11, 2025	
(DIN 00751178)
Statutory Policies
Dividend Distribution Policy
Anti-Bribery Policy
Business Responsibility Policy
Archival Policy
Code of Conduct for 
Board of Directors Senior 
Management
Code of Conduct for 
Non-Executive Director
Code for Prevention of Insider 
Trading
Enterprise Risk Management 
Policy
Familiarisation Programme for 
Independent Directors
Nomination and Remuneration 
Policy
Policy for Determination of 
Materiality for disclosures
Policy on Material Subsidiary
Policy on Preservation of 
Documents
Whistle Blower Policy
Policy on Materiality of Related 
Party Transactions and on 
dealing with Related Party 
Transactions
Short Term Treasury Policy
Audit Trail Policy for EFL – 
Financial System
Creche Policy
IT Policy
Transgender Policy
Non-Statutory Policies
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
134
135
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
CERTIFICATE OF PRACTICING COMPANY SECRETARY ON COMPLIANCE  
WITH THE CONDITIONS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To,
The Members,
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Eureka Forbes Limited (“the Company”), for 
the Financial Year ended on March 31, 2025, as stipulated in Regulation 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation 
(2) of regulation 46 and para-C, D and E of Schedule V of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“the SEBI LODR Regulations”).
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. Our examination was 
limited to the procedure and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance of the conditions 
of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations as given to us, we certify that the Company, 
to the extent applicable, has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27, 
clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and Para C, D and E of Schedule V of the SEBI LODR Regulations.
We state that in respect of investor’s grievance received during the financial year ended March 31, 2025, the Registrar and 
Transfer Agent of the Company have certified that as of March 31, 2025, there were no investors’ grievances remaining 
unattended / pending to the satisfaction of the investor.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
For MIHEN HALANI & ASSOCIATES
	
	
	
	
	
 Practicing Company Secretaries
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 Mihen Halani
Date: August 11, 2025	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 Proprietor
Place: Mumbai	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 CP No: 12015
UDIN: F009926G000977387	
 FCS No: 9926
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
[pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and clause (10)(i) of Para C of Schedule V to the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To,
The Members,
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Eureka 
Forbes Limited bearing CIN - L27310MH2008PLC188478 and having registered office at B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon 
Innova, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400 013, Maharashtra, India (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Company”), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 
34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification 
Number (DIN) status at the portal of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs at “www.mca.gov.in”) as considered necessary and 
explanations furnished to us by the Company and its officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board 
of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ending on March 31, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified 
from being appointed or continuing as Director of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sr. 
No.
Name of Directors
DIN
Designation
Date of
Appointment
In Company
1
Mr. Arvind Uppal
00104992
Non-Executive – Non-Independent Director, 
Chairman
26/04/2022
2
Mr. Pratik Pota
00751178
Managing Director & CEO
16/08/2022
3
Mr. Homi Katgara
00210338
Non-Executive - Independent Director
31/01/2022
4
Mr. Sahil Dalal
07350808
Non-Executive – Non-Independent Director
26/04/2022
5
Mr. Vinod Rao
01788921
Non-Executive - Independent Director
26/04/2022
6
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
09507365
Non-Executive - Independent Director
26/04/2022
7
Mr. Shashank Samant
09733485
Non-Executive - Independent Director
10/10/2022
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management 
of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has 
conducted the affairs of the Company.
For MIHEN HALANI & ASSOCIATES
Practicing Company Secretaries
Mihen Halani 
Place: Mumbai	
(Proprietor) 
Date: August 11, 2025	
CP No: 12015
UDIN: F009926G000977354	
FCS No: 9926
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
136
137
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Section A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1.	
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed 
Entity:
L27310MH2008PLC188478
2.	
Name of the Listed Entity:
Eureka Forbes Limited
3.	
Year of incorporation:
November 26, 2008
4. 
Registered office address:
B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova, Ganpatrao Kadam 
Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013
5.	
Corporate address:
B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova, Ganpatrao Kadam 
Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013
6.	
E-mail:
compliance@eurekaforbes.com
7.	
Telephone:
+91 2248821700
8.	
Website:
www.eurekaforbes.com
9.	
Financial year for which reporting is being 
done:
FY 2024-25
10.	 Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares 
are listed:
1.	
BSE Limited
2.	
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (With effect 
from September 11, 2024)
11.	 Paid-up Capital:
` 1,93,47,92,400
12.	 Name and contact details (telephone, email 
address) of the person who may be contacted 
in case of any queries on the BRSR report:
Name: Mr. Pratik Pota
Designation: Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer 
Email id: compliance@eurekaforbes.com
Telephone: +91 2248821700
13.	 Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures 
under this report made on a standalone basis 
(i.e. only for the entity) or on a consolidated 
basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities 
which form a part of its consolidated financial 
statements, taken together):
Standalone basis
14.	 Name of assurance provider:
Not Applicable
15.	 Type of assurance obtained:
Not Applicable
II.	
Product/Services
	
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
Sr. No.
Description of Main 
Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of 
the entity
1
Manufacturing
Electrical equipment, General Purpose and Special 
purpose Machinery & equipment, Transport equipment
53.79%
2
Manufacturing
Repair & installation of machinery & equipment, motor 
vehicles
25.00%
3
Trading
Retail Trading
21.21%
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Annexure – 7
	
17.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
Sr.  
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover 
contributed
1
Manufacture of domestic electric appliances
27501
13.74%
2
Manufacture of filtering and purifying machinery or apparatus for 
liquids and gases
28195
51.07%
3
Repair and servicing of household appliances
95221
32.92%
III.	 Operations
 
18. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of Plants
Number of Offices
Total
National
2
137
139
International
0
0
0
	
19.	 Markets served by the entity
	
	
a.	
Number of locations
Location
Number
National (No. of States)
34 (28 States + 6 Union Territories)
International (No. of Countries)
6
	
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
	
	
0.04%
	
	
c.	
Overview of Customer Types -
	
	
	
The Company is committed to serving a diverse customer base across multiple sectors, including B2C, 
educational institutions, retail stores, households, B2B clients, banks, IT firms, hospitals, SMEs, and hotels. 
Its market presence also spans government bodies such as the railways, armed forces, and various 
departments through platforms like the Government e-Marketplace (GeM). To ensure extensive market 
reach, the Company utilises its own website, leading e-commerce platforms, modern retail chains, and 
general trade outlets.
IV.	 Employees
 
20. Details as at the end of financial year:
	
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No.(B)
%(B/A)
No.(C)
%(C/A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent(D)
2,679
2,523
94%
156
6%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
9
7
78%
2
22%
3.
Total employees (D+E)
2,688
2,530
94%
158
6%
WORKERS
4.
Permanent(F)
42
41
98%
1
2%
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
0
0
0
0
0
6.
Total workers (F+G)
42
41
98%
1
2%
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
138
139
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
	
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No.(B)
%(B/A)
No.(C)
%(C/A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent(D)
Nil
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
3.
Total employees (D+E)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent(F)
Nil
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
6.
Total workers (F+G)
	
21.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women:
Total
(A)
Number and 
percentage of Females
No.(B)
%(B/A)
Board of Directors
7
1
14.28%
Key Management Personnel
3
1
33.33%
	
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers:
	
	
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-2024
FY 2022-2023
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Turnover Permanent 
Employees
38%
2%
40%
44%
2%
42%
61%
55%
61%
Turnover Permanent 
Workers
9.5%
0%
9.5%
4.5%
0%
4.5%
5%
0%
5%
V.	 Holding, Subsidiary and Associate companies (including joint ventures)
	
23.	 a.	
Names of holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ joint ventures
S. 
No.
Name of the holding / 
subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint ventures 
(A)
Indicate whether holding/ 
Subsidiary/ Associate/ 
Joint Venture
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity 
indicated at column 
A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No)
1
Lunolux Limited
Holding
62.56%
No
2
Forbes Aquatech Limited
Subsidiary
88.49%
The Company takes 
all active measures to 
include its subsidiaries in 
its Business responsibility 
Initiatives
3
Infinite Water Solutions Private 
Limited
Wholly-owned subsidiary
100%
4
Euro Forbes Limited, Dubai
Wholly owned subsidiary
100%
5
Forbes Lux FZE, Dubai*
Step down Subsidiary
100%
	
	
* Forbes Lux FZE, Dubai is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Euro Forbes Limited, Dubai (Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Eureka 
Forbes Limited).
VI.	 CSR Details
	
24.	 (i)	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No)
	
	
	
Yes
	
	
(ii)	 Turnover (in `): ` 2,43,606.24 Lakhs
	
	
(iii)	 Net worth (in `): ` 4,38,014.34 Lakhs
VII.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
	
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No)
(If yes, then 
provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redress policy)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Communities
Yes, Link to 
grievance 
redressal 
mechanism 
is www. 
eurekaforbes. 
com/
connectwith-us
0
0
-
0
0
-
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Not Applicable as the Company doesn’t have any investors other than 
Equity Shareholder
NA
NA
Shareholders
Yes, Link to 
grievance 
redressal 
mechanism 
is www. 
eurekaforbes. 
com/
connectwith-us
4
0
-
6
0
-
Employees 
and workers
Yes, Link to 
grievance 
redressal 
mechanism 
is www. 
eurekaforbes. 
com/
connectwith-us
0
0
-
2
0
--
Customers*
Call Centre, 
WhatsApp, 
Email, IVR, 
Website, 
Customer 
App www. 
eurekaforbes. 
com/connect 
with-us
145
136
-
97
82
Customer 
concerns 
are 
addressed 
promptly 
and 
effectively, 
ensuring a 
high level of 
satisfaction 
with 
complaint 
resolution.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
140
141
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No)
(If yes, then 
provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redress policy)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Value Chain 
Partners
We engage 
& interact 
with suppliers 
regularly and 
through these 
interactions 
with suppliers 
on regular 
basis , we seek 
their feedback 
& resolve & 
addresses 
grievances if any
0
0
-
0
0
-
Others 
(Specify)
Not applicable
	
	
*The Customer complaints pertain to Product, Services and Advertising related matters.
	
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues. Please indicate material responsible 
business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that present a 
risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate 
the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format:
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified (9 
Mission)
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying 
the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
1
Market Risk
Risk
Inability to 
drive category 
growth and 
market share.
•	 Significant investments have 
been made in R&D and marketing 
capabilities.
•	 Our offerings encompass multiple 
price points – from entry level to 
premium. The diverse price points 
are available for both products and 
services across categories.
•	 We have an innovation roadmap to 
ensure a steady pipeline of unique 
innovations.
•	 Our omnichannel approach, 
including strong go-to-market 
presence and access to consumer 
homes provides extensive market 
reach.
Negative
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified (9 
Mission)
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying 
the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
2
Consumer/
Reputation Risk 
Risk
Risk 
associated 
with poor 
customer 
experience 
potential 
impact on our 
reputation.
•	 Our extensive service network is 
being fortified with infrastructure 
upgrades and expansion.
•	 Continuous onboarding of service 
technicians and Partners with 
training helps in improving the NPS 
score.
•	 Significant investments in digital 
capabilities empower customers 
by giving them greater control 
over their experience. Initiatives 
like “Customer Day” and extensive 
engagement with business partners 
foster a strong customer-centric 
mindset across the organisation..
Negative 
3
Supply Chain Risk Risk
Risk arising 
from 
unexpected 
disruptions 
in the supply 
chain due to 
geopolitical or 
other external 
factors.
•	 Our supply network is derisked 
through a detailed vendor 
development roadmap.
•	 Robust strategic partnerships 
are in place and are continuously 
enhanced.
•	 Inhouse and Domestic 
manufacturing partnerships in key 
categories helps in maintaining 
healthy supply of products.
Negative 
4
Information/ 
Cybersecurity Risk
Risk
Risk 
associated 
with 
cybersecurity, 
including 
cyberattacks, 
ransomware, 
data breaches, 
inadequate 
disaster 
recovery, 
and non-
compliance 
with evolving 
data privacy 
laws such as 
DPDP Rules.
•	 Detailed disaster recovery process 
is in place, ensuring business 
continuity.
•	 We have implemented several data 
security measures in areas like 
customer data, call masking, etc. to 
safeguard sensitive information.
•	 Cybersecurity awareness trainings 
have been rolled out across the 
organisation.
•	 We maintain in house capabilities 
and access to external 
cybersecurity experts.
Negative 
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
142
143
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified (9 
Mission)
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying 
the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
5
People Risk
Risk
Risk 
associated 
with people 
and cultural 
factors that 
may hinder our 
transformation 
initiatives.
•	 We have conducted strategy 
alignment sessions and cascaded 
them across all employees. The 
first-ever ESOP programme 
covering all managers was rolled 
out.
•	 Sustained employee engagement 
and recognition programmes 
across levels are in place to drive 
the transformation agenda. 
•	 We have built new people 
capabilities and scaled up in areas 
like R&D, technology, D2C, and 
Sales organisation.
•	 ‘Voice of EFL’ engagement survey 
with a high participation rate helped 
reinforce employee centricity while 
identifying collaboration gaps
Negative 
6
Product/
Environment Risk
Risk
Risk 
associated 
with inability 
to enhance 
product 
quality, meet 
evolving 
customer 
needs, adapt 
to rapid 
technological 
shifts and 
market 
trends, and 
comply with 
environmental 
regulations.
•	 Design improvements, including 
new flow restrictors and flushing 
mechanisms, are underway, along 
with regular review of performance 
metrics.
•	 Our R&D and marketing pipelines 
are aligned with a multi-year 
portfolio plan, while new 
technologies and product variants 
have been launched.
•	 Both factories are EMS certified with 
EPR compliance in place. Annual 
filings and waste management 
ensure regulatory adherence. CO2 
emissions are monitored, with a 
decarbonisation roadmap targeting 
measurable reductions by FY26.
Negative 
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1.	
a.	
Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover 
each principle and its core elements of the 
NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
b.	
Has the policy been approved by the Board? 
(Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
c.	
Web Link of the Policies, if available
www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/
corporategovernance/policies
2. 	
Whether the entity has translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes / No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3. 	
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain 
partners? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
4. 	
Name of the national and international codes/
certifications/labels/ standards (e.g. Forest 
Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, 
Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, 
BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each 
principle.
1.	
GC Mark Certificate (Bengaluru & Dehradun)
2. 	
IGBC Membership Certificate (Dehradun)
3. 	
ISO 14001: 2015 (Environment Management System) 
(Bengaluru & Dehradun)
4. 	
ISO 9001: 2015 (Quality Management System) (Bengaluru 
& Dehradun)
5. 	
BIS Certification as per IS 14724 : 1999 (Dehradun)
6. 	
IS16240 certifications (Bengaluru & Dehradun)
7. 	
IS14724 Certifications (Dehradun)
8. 	
IS0 45001:2018 (Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) 
Management Systems) (Dehradun & Bengaluru)
5.	
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the 
entity with defined timelines, if any.
The Company is committed to delivering long-term sustainable 
value to its stakeholders. While the comprehensive framework 
for setting long-term targets is currently under development, 
we have proactively initiated early-stage measures to promote 
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) principles.
For the fiscal year 2025-26, the Company has set the following 
specific goals with defined timelines:
1.	
Reduction in Groundwater Withdrawal:
	
The manufacturing plants aim to achieve an additional 
5% reduction in groundwater withdrawal compared to the 
previous year.
2.	
Renewable Energy Initiatives:
	
Installation of rooftop solar plants with capacities of 
245 kWp and 165 kWp at the manufacturing facilities 
(Dehradun & Bengaluru) is planned within FY 2025-
26. This initiative supports our renewable energy goals 
and helps reduce dependence on conventional power 
sources.
3. 
Energy Efficient Equipment & Infrastructure:
	
Installation of VFD Air Compressors and high efficiency 
assembly line drives.
These targeted actions underscore our commitment to 
sustainable growth and ESG integration as part of our broader 
corporate strategy.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
144
145
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
6.	
Performance of the entity against the specific 
commitments, goals and targets along-with 
reasons in case the same are not met.
•	
Ground Water Withdrawal: In FY 2024-25, both our plants 
successfully achieved a 10% reduction in groundwater 
withdrawal compared to the previous financial year. This 
accomplishment was driven by initiatives including the 
use of RO reject water for cleaning & flushing, as well 
as the implementation of digital water meters for close 
monitoring of daily water consumption. These measures 
have enabled more efficient water management and 
contributed significantly to our sustainability goals.
•	
ISO 45001:2018 Certification: In FY 2024-25, both our 
plants successfully obtained the OHS & MS certification 
following comprehensive audits conducted by an external 
agency. This achievement was realised alongside 
significant upgrades to the safety protocols within our 
premises, reinforcing our commitment to a safe and 
compliant work environment.
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets 
and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
	
The Company has always believed that sustainability and business growth go hand-in-hand. Our consumer-centric 
approach has helped us stay a leader in the home appliances market by quickly adapting to changing consumer 
needs. We are committed to delivering high product standards and exceptional customer service while embedding 
sustainable practices into every part of our business. This includes optimising energy use, adopting eco-friendly 
packaging, prioritising local sourcing, conserving resources, and reducing waste across our operations. Responsible 
sourcing throughout our supply chain is also a key focus, helping us minimise our environmental footprint and 
support a sustainable future.
	
In FY 2024–25, we made significant strides toward our environmental goals, with our manufacturing facilities in 
Dehradun and Bengaluru achieving a 10% and 8% reduction in groundwater withdrawal respectively, through the 
implementation of water reuse systems and digital monitoring technologies. Looking ahead to FY 2025–26, we aim 
to further reduce groundwater use by 5% and install rooftop solar plants with capacities of 246.5 kWp and 165 kWp. 
These steps reflect our commitment to tackling ESG challenges like climate resilience and energy transition. While 
developing a comprehensive long-term ESG roadmap, we remain focussed on continuous improvement, transparent 
reporting, and aligning with global standards to create lasting value for all stakeholders.
8.	
Details of the highest authority responsible for 
implementation and oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy (ies).
Name: Mr. Pratik Pota
DIN: 00751178
Designation: Managing Director & CEO
9.	
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the 
Board/ Director responsible for decision making 
on sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, 
provide details.
Yes, the Managing Director & CEO, along with senior 
management, continuously oversee the Company’s social, 
environmental, governance, and economic responsibilities.
10. 	 Details of review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for review
Indicate whether review was undertaken 
by Director/ Committee of the Board/ 
Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Any other-please specify
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against 
above policies and follow 
up action
The Board periodically reviews and updates policies and processes to align with evolving 
industry standards.
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance 
to the principles, and, 
rectification of any non-
compliances
The Company complies with all legal requirements under each principle and conducts 
all mandatory statutory audits to uphold the highest standards.
11. 	 Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No) If yes provide name of the agency.
	
The Board undertakes quarterly reviews and internal audits of all approved policies. To further enhance governance 
and risk management, an external agency has been engaged to independently assess the effectiveness of policies, 
operational processes, and compliance mechanisms.
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the principles material to 
its business (Yes/No)
Not Applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position 
to formulate and implement the policies on specified 
principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and 
technical resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/
No)
Any other reason (please specify)
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Business should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1. 
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial 
year.
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under the 
training and its  
impact
%age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of 
Directors
19
Programmes carried out by the Company 
includes the following topics and areas:
•	 Internal Control Systems;
•	 CSR strategy framework;
•	 Industry evolution and competition insights;
•	 Business Updates, New Business 
Strategies, Business Models, Industry 
Outlook, Sharing updates about Competitive 
environment;
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
19
100%
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
146
147
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under the 
training and its  
impact
%age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programmes
•	 Update on LODR Amendments;
•	 Legal and Regulatory Updates
•	 Updates on Prevention of Insider Trading 
Regulations
•	 Investor Grievances;
•	 Risks and opportunities for the businesses 
including Risk Management and Risk 
Matrix;
•	 Future outlook and the way forward;
•	 Quarterly Updates on Business operations
•	 Strategy Update by various functions
•	 Internal Audit Plans and findings;
•	 Compliances with various applicable laws;
Employees other 
than BoD and 
KMPs
48
•	 Prevention of Sexual Harassment
•	 Code of Coduct
•	 Prohibtion of Insider Trading training
99%
100%
100%
Workers
2. 
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings 
(by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the 
financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as 
specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as 
disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount 
(In INR)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
Refer to the Company’s website for all disclosures made under Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 at www.eurekaforbes.com/
investor-relations/corporate-announcements
Settlement
Compounding fee
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement 
agencies/ judicial institutions
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Imprisonment
NIL
NA
NA
NA
Punishment
NIL
NA
NA
NA
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in case where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
Refer to the Company’s website for all disclosures made under Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 at www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/corporate-announcements
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
The Company ensures that all policies and practices align with the National Voluntary Guidelines (NVGs), with their 
implementation monitored by relevant Board Committees and Functional Heads. To foster awareness and accessibility, 
all HR policies are hosted on the Company’s employee portal, enabling seamless communication and transparency. 
Statutory policies are publicly available on the Company’s website (www.eurekaforbes.com).
	
The Company has established a formal Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics, supported by a robust Whistle Blower 
Policy applicable to both internal and external stakeholders. A comprehensive e-learning module on these policies 
is mandatory for all employees and forms a part of the induction for new joiners. Additionally, the course must be 
completed annually by every employee to reinforce a culture of ethics, transparency, and accountability. For workers, 
quarterly refresher sessions are conducted by HR teams to maintain consistent awareness and understanding of 
these critical policies.
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directors
NIL
NIL
KMPs
NIL
NIL
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NIL
NIL
6. 
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the Directors
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
7. 
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/ penalties / action taken 
by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
Not applicable
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables [(Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured] in the 
following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables
73.13
90.70
9.	
Open-ness of business
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties 
along-with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Concentration of 
Purchases
a.	
Purchases from trading houses as % of total 
purchases
The Company does not engage in any 
business with Trading Houses
b.	
Number of trading houses where purchases are 
made from
c.	
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of 
total purchases from trading houses
Concentration of 
Sales
a.	
Sales to dealers/ distributors as % of total sales
52.66%
49.43%
b.	
Number of dealers distributors to whom sales 
are made
5,787
76,102*
c.	
Sales to top 10 dealers/ distributors as % of total 
sales to dealers/ distributors
12.34%
15.55%
*Includes Institutional Customers
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
148
149
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Share of RPTs in
a.	
Purchases (Purchases with related parties/ Total 
Purchases)
4.14%
6.32%
b.	
Sales (Sales to related parties/ Total Sales)
0.01%
0.12%
c.	
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to 
related parties / Total loans & advances)
0%
0%
d.	
Investments (Investments in related parties/ Total 
Investments made)
29.98%
31,47%
PRINCIPLE 2: Business should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1. 
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively.
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Details of improvements in environmental  
and social impacts
R&D
4.46
NIL
Heavy Metal Remover Technology:  Integrated Heavy 
Metal Remover Cartridge into UV water purification 
systems to enhance safety and improved water quality.
Water Saver Technology: Implemented across all 
RO water purifier models, this technology ensures 
a minimum 40% water recovery rate, meeting 
BIS standards and advancing our commitment to 
sustainability.
Capex
NIL
NIL
-
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
	
Yes, the Company recommends and ensures that suppliers adhere to social and ethical standards throughout the 
supply chain. The Company requires declarations from suppliers and restricts hazardous materials in accordance 
with RoHS regulations. For example, it verifies the absence of restricted substances in PCBs and reviews material 
composition, obtaining Material Test Certificates for parts such as stainless steel tanks whenever necessary.
	
	
The Company also recommends and prioritises the adoption of sustainable practices among supply chain 
partners by promoting the use of reusable PP boxes for plastic parts. Additionally, it is now encouraging the use 
of honeycomb materials for internal packaging and is actively progressing in this direction.
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
20% (approx)
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end 
of life, for
	
(a)	 Plastics (including packaging)
	
(b)	 E-waste
	
(c)	 Hazardous waste and
	
(d)	 other waste.
	
(a)	 Plastic: The Company has collaborated with India’s leading waste management and disposal companies to 
address plastic waste responsibly. The Company aims to minimise the environmental impact of plastic waste 
and contribute to a circular economy by promoting the recycling and reuse of plastics used in packaging. 
By partnering with authorised waste management companies, the Company demonstrates its dedication to 
environmental stewardship and taking concrete steps towards a greener future. The Company has obtained EPR 
registration for Plastic Waste management.
	
(b)	 E-waste: The Company has partnered with leading electronic asset management and disposal companies 
for its e-waste recycling initiative. Through this collaboration, Eureka Forbes ensures environmentally safe 
management of electronics at their end-of-life phase, contributing to environmental protection and responsible 
waste management. The Company has obtained EPR registration for E- Waste management.
	
(c)	 Hazardous waste: The Company has taken significant steps to address environmental concerns at its factories 
in Dehradun and Bommassandra, Bengaluru. The Company has installed Effluent Treatment Plants and Sewage 
Treatment Plants to effectively remove contaminants from wastewater and sewage. The treated water is collected 
in storage tanks and reused for gardening and other applications, promoting sustainable water management 
practices. Additionally, the Company has identified reliable and renowned partners, who are India’s leading 
waste management and disposal companies, to efficiently handle the waste generated during their operations. 
This proactive approach highlights the Company’s commitment to responsible waste management and 
environmental stewardship.
	
(d)	 Other waste: Bio Medical Waste - The Company has executed an agreement with the government authorised 
vendor for collection and recycling of bio medical waste at both factory locations.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to 
Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Yes. EPR is applicable to the Company. 
PRINCIPLE 3: Business should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value 
chains
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health  
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
%  
(B / A
Number 
(C)
%  
(C / A)
Number 
(D
%  
(D / A
Number 
(E)
%  
(E / A)
Number 
(F)
%  
(F / A)
Permanent employees*
Male
2523
2523
100%
2523
100%
0
0%
2523
100%
0
0%
Female
156
156
100%
156
100%
156
100%
0
0%
0
0%
Total
2679
2679
100%
2679
100%
156
6%
2523
94%
0
0%
Other than Permanent employees
Male
7
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Female
2
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Total
9
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of workers covered by
Total 
(A)
Health  
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
%  
(B / A
Number 
(C)
%  
(C / A)
Number 
(D
%  
(D / A
Number 
(E)
%  
(E / A)
Number 
(F)
%  
(F / A)
Permanent workers
Male
41
41
100%
41
100%
0
0%
41
100%
0
0
Female
1
1
100%
1
100%
1
100%
0
0%
0
0
Total
42
42
100%
42
100%
1
2%
41
98%
0
0
Other than Permanent workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
150
151
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
	
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other 
than permanent) in the following format-
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the 
Company
0.28%
0.31%
	
Please note, the Company has only considered Staff welfare expenses and health insurance premium for the above.
2. 
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year
Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100
100
Yes
100
100
Yes
Gratuity
100
100
Yes
100
100
Yes
ESI
100
100
Yes
100
100
Yes
Others – please specify
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
 
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by 
the entity in this regard.
	
The Company recognises the importance of complying with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, and is 
taking proactive steps to create an inclusive and accessible work environment. While there are currently no permanent 
employees with disabilities, the Company is progressively implementing accessibility features such as ramps, signage, 
and restrooms across its premises. Accessibility is viewed as a key element of social responsibility, and continuous 
efforts are being made to foster a barrier-free and supportive workplace for all.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
The Company is committed to fostering a fair, inclusive, and discrimination-free workplace for all employees, applicants, 
and workers. Equal opportunities are provided to every individual, irrespective of race, gender, religion, disability, age, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other characteristic. The Company strictly prohibits discrimination of any 
kind, as outlined in the Employee Code of Conduct. The principle of equal opportunity is also firmly embedded in the 
Company’s Code of Ethics and Conduct Policy.
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
21
84%
0
0%
Female
6
86%
0
0%
Total
27
85%
0
0%
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (If yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED (EFL) is an equal employment opportunity company and is 
committed to creating a healthy working environment. The policies of the organisation 
strictly prohibits discrimination against any employee or applicant for employment on 
the grounds of the individual’s race, colour, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national 
origin, age, disability or any other characteristic protected by law. EFL ensures that all 
employment decisions, involving recruitment, hiring, promotion, training, compensation, 
benefits, transfer, discipline, and discharge, are all free of unlawful discrimination.
Yes/No (If yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Other than Permanent 
Workers
To reinforce its commitment to create a healthy work environment that enables employees 
to work without fear of prejudice, bias or harassment, the Company has put in place a 
well defined grievance redressal mechanism. Commitees are setup at regional levels 
and manufacturing units, Employee Assitance Registers (EAR) are maintained in Units, 
and regular awareness sessions are held to ensure that any complaints or concerns of 
employees are heard and amicably resolved. These mechanisms are designed to receive 
and facilitate the resolution of concerns raised by employees and to address complaints, 
disputes, or grievances brought forward by external stakeholders. It serves as an important 
channel for individuals to seek redress and ensures that their concerns are handled in a 
fair and timely manner. By involving various functions and establishing robust mechanisms, 
EFL strives to create a work environment that respects and safeguards human rights. 
The Company is committed to addressing any human rights issues that may arise and 
continuously improving practices to uphold the well-being and dignity of all individuals 
impacted by our operations.
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent 
Employees
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are part 
of association(s) or 
Union (B)
%  
(B / A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are part 
of association(s) or 
Union (D)
%  
(D / C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
2679
0
0%
2633
0
0
Male
2523
0
0%
2504
0
0
Female
156
0
0%
129
0
0
Total Permanent 
Worker
42
0
0%
41
0
0
Male
41
0
0%
40
0
0
Female
1
0
0%
1
0
0
Note: All employees and workers at EFL are free to form or join associations of their choice and engage in collective 
bargaining. The Company also expects its suppliers and vendors to uphold and respect these principles, ensuring 
freedom of association and collective bargaining throughout the value chain.
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
%  
(B / A)
No. (C)
%  
(C / A)
No. (E)
%  
(E / D)
No. (F)
%  
(F / D)
Employees
Male
2523
77
3%
675
27%
2504
252
10%
1165
46%
Female
156
 8
5%
15
10%
129
9
7%
92
71%
Total
2679
85
3%
690
26%
2633
261
10%
1257
47%
Workers
Male
 41
 41
100%
 41
100%
40
3
7.5%
11
27.5%
Female
 1
 1
100%
 1
100%
1
1
100%
1
100%
Total
 42
42
100%
 42
100%
41
4
9.76%
12
29.27%
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
152
153
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Male
2523
1841
73%
2504
1484
59%
Female
156
101
65%
129
119
92%
Total
2679
1942
72%
2633
1603
61
Workers
Male
41
38
93%
40
40
100%
Female
1
1
100%
1
1
100%
Total
42
39
93%
41
41
100%
10.	 Health and safety management system:
	
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? 
(Yes/No). If yes, the coverage such system?
	
	
Yes, the Company has implemented the ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and Safety Management System. 
This system provides a structured framework to manage OH&S risks and opportunities, aiming to prevent 
work-related injuries and ill health, and to ensure a safe and healthy workplace by eliminating hazards and 
reducing risks through effective preventive and protective measures. The scope of ISO 45001:2018 certification 
covers Eureka’s sites, including both manufacturing locations.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-
routine basis by the entity?
	
	
The Company conducts monthly evaluations for routine job tasks, which includes:
	
	
1. 	
Gemba Walk assessment.
	
	
2.	
Internal and External Audit reviews.
	
	
3. 	
Near Miss Reporting for the Employees & Visitors.
	
	
4. 	
Quarterly Work Zone Monitoring for illumination and noise level.
	
	
For non-routine jobs, the Company implements a Work Permit System (WPS) to ensure proper authorisation and 
safety measures..
	
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. (Y/N)
	
	
Yes, the Company has put in place a well-defined set of processes to address work-related hazards effectively. 
These processes empower workers to report any potential risks or unsafe conditions they encounter during their 
work tasks. The Company’s commitment to creating a safe work environment through effective hazard reporting 
and risk avoidance demonstrates their dedication to the well-being of their workers.
	
d.	
Do the employees/worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/No)
	
	
Yes, the employees of the Company have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services and all the 
employees are covered under healthcare Insurance. In addition to this, we have established OHC (Occupational 
Health Canter) and also signed the agreement with the hospital at both the locations, on demand Ambulance and 
Doctor’s visits.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one-
million-person hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health 
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
	
The Company places strong emphasis on the safety and well-being of employees and workers by adopting preventive 
measures to ensure a safe work environment. This includes maintaining an in-house trained Emergency Response 
Team and conducting safety inductions for all new joiners. Regular health and safety training sessions are organised 
to equip employees with the knowledge to manage potential risks effectively.
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
0
0
-
0
0
-
Health & Safety
0
0
-
0
0
-
14.	 Assessment for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or 
third parties)
Health and safety 
practices
100%. Inspections and annual audits are carried out at factory locations by the Factory 
Inspector and external audit partners to review overall plant operations, including health and 
safety aspects.
Working Conditions
100%. Inspections and annual audits are conducted at factory locations by the Factory 
Inspector and external audit partners, and all legal registers required under the Factories 
Act, 1948 are maintained following thorough examination.
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks/ concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
During the reporting year, all identified safety-related observations and unsafe conditions were resolved by the factory 
management team. No major risks or concerns were identified during the health and safety assessments. Audit findings 
were systematically converted into risk mitigation plans, and specific corrective actions were implemented to eliminate 
potential hazards.
	
The Company has established robust systems to identify, monitor, and address unsafe conditions across operational 
sites. Dedicated safety officers conduct regular inspections and maintain documentation, with monthly management 
reviews to track the status of corrective actions. At office locations, audit observations are addressed through targeted 
action plans led by local Finance, HR, and Administration teams. All necessary actions have been taken, and any 
open points are regularly reviewed and closed in a timely manner.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
154
155
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
PRINCIPLE 4: Business should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
The Company places a strong emphasis on nurturing meaningful relationships with both internal and external 
stakeholders, recognising their impact on business decisions and operations. Trust built through these relationships 
reinforces the Company’s brand reputation and long-term value creation. A structured stakeholder mapping exercise 
has been undertaken to support strategic decision-making and ensure alignment with stakeholder expectations. 
As referenced in Principle 4, Question 2, the Company has set up effective communication channels to maintain 
transparent and open dialogue with all key stakeholder groups, including:
	
a.	
Employees
	
b.	
Local Community
	
c.	
Supplier/Vendor
	
d.	
Shareholders/Investors
	
e.	
Customers
	
f.	
Regulatory Bodies
	
g.	
Trade Partners
	
This approach enables the Company to identify, prioritise, and respond to the needs and concerns of each group, 
fostering sustained, collaborative, and value-driven engagement.
2. 
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder 
group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalised 
Group (Yes/
No)*
Channels of communication (Email, 
SMS, 
Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community 
Meetings, Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/ others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope 
of engagement 
including key topics 
and concerns 
raised during such 
engagement
Employees
No
1. 	SMARTs (national and regional) 
2. Monthly regional townhalls; 
Quarterly central townhall (led by 
ExCom) 3. Regular communication 
from Corp Com and HR on key 
updates 4. Engagement activities 
(sports, celebrations, etc.) – annual 
engagement calendar published
Regularly
To support employee 
development, ensure 
well-being and maintain 
a safe workplace
Local 
Communities/ 
NGOs
Yes
1. 	Eco School project, impacting 
more than 4500 children and staff 
from 12 schools across Dehradun, 
Bengaluru, & Mumbai.
2. 	Built and refurbishment of more 
than 51 toilets for boys and girls 
along with set up of 18 water 
purifiers across the schools.
3. 	WASH (Water, Sanitation, and 
Hygiene) 
awareness 
trainings 
conducted to encourage critical 
hygiene practices and extend 
their influence to families and 
communities. 
4. 	Each school handover ceremony 
had senior leaders from EFL 
personally visiting these schools 
and meeting school management 
committees to hand over the 
facilities.
Regularly
Local communities 
influence public 
perception and 
company reputation. 
NGOs act as facilitators 
in community 
engagement and 
advocacy with local 
authorities
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalised 
Group (Yes/
No)*
Channels of communication (Email, 
SMS, 
Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community 
Meetings, Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/ others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope 
of engagement 
including key topics 
and concerns 
raised during such 
engagement
Suppliers/ 
Vendors
No
In-person meetings, vendor visits 
or visits to vendor’s facility/office, 
engagement at leadership level
Regularly
Ensuring supply chain 
continuity, quality 
assurance, and long-
term collaboration on 
future business needs
Shareholders/ 
Investors
No
Quarterly earnings Calls, Investors 
Meet, 
Annual 
General 
Meeting, 
Company Website, Press Releases 
and Other Statutory Disclosures.
Quarterly, Annually
Shareholders provide 
financial backing and 
credibility. Transparent 
engagement is key to 
reinforcing trust and 
market confidence
Customers
No
Employee Visits, CRM activities, NPS 
surveys, Website
Regularly
To strengthen customer 
relationships and 
maintain predictable 
revenue growth
Regulatory 
bodies
No
Transparent communication through 
statutory disclosures
Regularly
Fostering compliance, 
transparency, and 
accountability, thereby 
building long-term trust
Trade Partners – 
FBPs (Franchise 
Business 
Partners), FDOs 
(Franchise Direct 
Operations) 
and SSDs 
(Sales & Service 
Distributors)
No
ERP & DMS – Primary & Secondary 
Sales Order Processing & Data 
Archiving 
JOS 
(Joy 
of 
selling) 
Proprietary App – Lead management 
system; Manpower active count, 
demo trends & sales productivity 
management. Partner Circle Head 
– Company SPOC responsible for 
individual 
Partner 
Performance 
Management.
Daily/Weekly
Strategic collaboration 
to enhance market 
reach in non-CRC 
zones and (company 
owned & operated 
“Customer Response 
Centres”) or key cities/
markets
	
* Although we have indicated ‘No’ above, as these stakeholder groups are not entirely vulnerable or marginalised, the Company is 
consciously engaged in initiatives aimed at supporting and empowering vulnerable segments within these groups. For instance, 
India’s first call centre operated by individuals with special needs has been established in collaboration with NASEOH (National 
Society for Equal Opportunities for the Handicapped) in Chembur, Mumbai.
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, 
in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A)
No. of employees / 
workers covered (B)
%  
(B / A)
Total (C)
No. of employees / 
workers covered (D)
% 
 (D / C)
Employees
Permanent
2679
2652
99%
2633
158
6%
Other than permanent
9
6
67%
9
0
0%
Total Employees
2688
2658
99%
2642
158
6%
Workers
Permanent
42
42
100%
41
41
100%
Other than permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Workers
42
42
100%
41
41
100%
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
156
157
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
%  
(B / A)
No. (C)
%  
(C / A)
No. (E)
%  
(E / D)
No. (F)
%  
(F / D)
Employees
Permanent employees
2679
154
6%
2525
94%
2633
214
8%
2419
92%
Male
2523
147
6%
2376
94%
2504
204
8%
2300
92%
Female
156
7
4%
149
96%
129
10
 8%
119
92%
Other than Permanent 
employees
9
0
0%
0
0%
9
0
0
9
100%
Male
7
0
0%
0
0%
7
0
0
7
100%
Female
2
0
0%
0
0%
2
0
0
2
100%
Workers
Permanent workers
42
0
0%
42
100%
41
39
95%
2
5%
Male
41
0
0%
41
100%
40
38
95%
2
5%
Female
1
0
0%
1
100%
1
1
100%
0
0
Other than Permanent 
workers
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Male
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Female
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
3.	
Details of renumeration/ salary/ wages, in the following format:
	
a.	
Median renumeration/wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)
6
28,75,000
1
29,60,000
Key Managerial Personnel
2
6,72,23,250
1
1,03,31,304
Employees other than BoD 
and KMP
2,521
4,92,696
155
6,30,012
Workers
41
2,93,220
1
2,79,396
	
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages (Permanent 
employees + permanent workers)
8.35%
7.42%
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
The Company follows a Code of Conduct, with the HR department responsible for managing any human rights 
concerns arising from business operations. Additionally, a whistleblower mechanism is in place, enabling employees 
(current or former), directors, business partners, distributors, customers, or vendors to report concerns confidentially.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
To maintain a safe and productive workplace, the Company has adopted a POSH policy and a whistle-blower policy. 
Detailed response on the same is shared in P5-Q8. The Company has zero tolerance for human rights violations. 
Human rights is one of the Company’s key focus areas. Any human rights violation, wherever reported, shall be 
investigated by the Management following the code of conduct policy of the Company.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
0
0
NA
1
NIL
Following 
a thorough 
investigation, the 
accused employee 
was terminated 
from their position
Discrimination at 
workplace
0
0
NA
1
NIL
-
Child Labour
0
0
NA
NIL
NIL
-
Forced Labour/
Involuntary Labour
0
0
NA
NIL
NIL
-
Wages
0
0
NA
NIL
NIL
-
Other human rights 
related issues
0
0
NA
NIL
NIL
-
7. 
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
0
1
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
0
0.77%
Complaints on POSH upheld
NA
1
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complaint in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
The Company maintains a strict policy against discrimination and harassment, ensuring that all investigations are 
conducted confidentially to protect the complainant and witnesses from any form of disadvantage. In alignment with 
the POSH policy implemented across the organisation, appropriate measures are taken to safeguard individuals who 
report incidents, protecting them from victimisation or retaliation.
	
Recognising the importance of a safe and supportive work environment, the Company encourages employees to 
voice their concerns without fear of adverse consequences. The POSH training programme, available on the Learning 
Management System (LMS), is a mandatory annual compliance requirement for all employees.
	
To effectively address both sexual and non-sexual harassment, Internal Complaints Committees (ICCs) have been 
constituted at both regional and corporate offices. These committees comprise a diverse panel of internal and 
external members with relevant expertise and operate under clearly defined procedures for addressing cases of 
sexual harassment.
	
Regular sensitisation and training sessions are conducted to promote awareness and responsiveness to these issues. 
These initiatives are coordinated by the Human Resources department, in collaboration with other relevant functions, 
to ensure consistent implementation across the Company.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No) 
	
No. However, the Company strongly believes that suppliers and vendors are an integral part of its business and 
contribute to its growth and viability. Thus regular engagement activities are organised with suppliers and vendors
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
158
159
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
10.	 Assessment for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by 
entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
None
Forced/involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others-please specify
11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerning arising 
from the assessments at Question 10 above.
	
Not Applicable.
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
GJ
0
0
Total fuel consumption (B)
GJ
0
0
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
GJ
0
0
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
GJ
0
0
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
GJ
2776.67
2508.44
Total fuel consumption (E)
GJ
152.57
70.318
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
GJ
0
0
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources 
(D+E+F)
GJ
2929.24
2578.758
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
GJ
2929.24
2578.758
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy 
consumption/ turnover in Million Rupees)
GJ/ Million 
Rupees
0.12
0.12
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total energy consumed/ 
Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP in Million Rupees)
2.48
2.38
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Energy intensity (optional)- the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
NA
NA
The above details pertains to manufacturing plants located at Dehradun and Bengaluru.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
2. 
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under 
the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action 
taken, if any.
	
The Company currently has no sites or facilities classified as Designated Consumers (DCs) under the Government of 
India’s Perform, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in KL)
(i)	
Surface Water (Government water supply)
0
0
(ii)	
Ground Water (Borewell water)
11348
11175
(iii)	 Third Party Water
7763
9833
(iv) 	 Seawater / desalinated water
0
0
(v) 	 Others (Rainwater)
0
0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in KL) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
19111
21008
Total volume of water consumption (in KL)
18920
20827
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Total Water consumption 
/ Revenue from operations) (Water consumed (KL)/ Turnover (Rs in 
million)
0.78
0.95
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP) (Total water consumption/ Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP in Million Rupees)
16.05
19.24
Water intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
NA
NA
The above details pertains to manufacturing plants located at Dehradun and Bengaluru.
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
i)	
To surface water
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment-please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
ii)	
To Groundwater
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment-please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
iii)	 To Seawater
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment-please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
iv)	 Sent to third-parties
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment-please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
v)	
Others
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment-please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
Total water discharge (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
The above details pertains to manufacturing plants located at Dehradun and Bengaluru.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency
	
No
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
	
Yes, Eureka has implemented a Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) system at both factory locations. Sewage Treatment 
Plants (STPs) and Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs) have been installed, and the treated water is recycled and reused 
within the premises for activities such as gardening and flushing. A minor quantity of water is lost during the treatment 
and sludge drying process due to evaporation, while the remaining treated water is fully utilised for internal purposes. 
The Company adheres to all applicable guidelines and standards prescribed by the Central and State Pollution 
Control Boards (CPCB and SPCBs) for the operation and maintenance of STPs and ETPs.
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
160
161
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
2024-25
2023-24
NOx
kgs
17.12
15.8
Sox
kgs
8.69
7.6
Particulate matter (PM)
kgs
8.47
15.8
Persistent organic compounds (POP)
tonnes
0
0
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
tonnes
0
0
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
tonnes
0
0
Others-please specify
tonnes
NA
NA
	
The above details pertains to manufacturing plants located at Dehradun and Bengaluru.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following 
format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
TCO2e
109
92
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
TCO2e
762
789
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per 
rupee of turnover (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions / Revenue from operations)
tCO2e/Million 
turnover in INR
0.04
0.04
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per 
rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions / Revenue from operations adjusted for 
PPP)
TCO2e/
Revenue from 
operations 
adjusted for 
PPP in Million 
Rupees
0.74
1.05
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in 
terms of physical output
NA
NA
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
NA
NA
	
The above details pertains to manufacturing plants located at Dehradun and Bengaluru.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
	
•	
The Company has transitioned from R-22 to R-32 refrigerants in air conditioning systems, leading to a reduction 
in both ozone depletion potential (ODP) and CO2 emissions.
	
•	
In FY 2024-25, the manufacturing operations contributed to carbon emission reduction by replacing a petrol 
car with a hybrid (petrol + CNG) vehicle at the Bengaluru plant and by shifting from petrol scooters to electric 
scooters at the Dehradun plant.
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
9.76
32.01
E-waste (B)
0
0
Bio-medical waste (C)
0.11
0.02
Construction	 and	 demolition
waste (D)
0
0
Battery waste (E)
0
0
Radioactive waste (F)
0
0
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
297.6
252.85
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
711.2
613.97
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
1018.67
898.85
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste generated/ 
Revenue from operations)
0.04
0.04
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP) (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP in Million Rupees
0.86
0.83
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be
selected by the entity
NA
NA
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered 
through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in metric 
tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 	 Recycled
1018.67
898.85
(ii) 	 Re-used
0
0
(iii) 	 Other recovery operations
0
0
Total
1018.67
898.85
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by 
nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 	 Incineration
0
0
(ii) 	 Landfilling
0
0
(iii) 	 Other disposal operations
0
0
Total
0
0
The above details pertains to manufacturing plants located at Dehradun and Bengaluru.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, the name of the external agency.
	
No
10. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your Company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes 
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
1.	
The Company has established well-defined systems to manage operational waste efficiently. In line with the 
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) guidelines under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016 (amended 
in 2022), the Company ensures the collection, processing, and recycling of an amount of plastic waste equivalent 
to what is used in its product packaging annually. Although hazardous waste generation is minimal compared 
to non-hazardous waste, robust mechanisms are in place for its safe collection, transportation, and disposal 
through authorised government vendors. These efforts reflect the Company’s commitment to responsible waste 
management and environmentally sustainable practices.
	
2.	
The Company is also compliant with the E-Waste Management System, as per the E-Waste (Management) Rules, 
2016 (amended in 2022).
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
162
163
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
11. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where 
environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
S. 
No.
Location of operations/offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental 
approval / clearance are being complied 
with? (Y/N)
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective 
action taken, if any.
1.
Eureka Forbes Limited, Lal Tappar 
Industrial Area, Majri Grant, 
Dehradun Haridwar Highway 
-Dehradun, Uttarakhand - 248140
Assembling Unit 
of Water Filter cum 
Purifier & Water Cooler 
Cum Purifier
Yes, the Company has obtained Environmental 
Clearance from the Ministry of Environment, 
Forest, and Climate Change.
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year:
Name and brief 
details of project
EIA
Notification 
No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain (Yes 
/ No)
Relevant 
Web link
Not Applicable
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the 
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment 
protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following 
format:
S. 
No.
Specify the law / regulation 
/ guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details 
of the non- 
compliance
Any fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulatory agencies such as pollution 
control boards or by courts
Corrective 
action taken, 
if any
Not Applicable
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner 
that is responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
1. 
a. 
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations.
	
	
The Company is affiliated with 9 trade and industry associations/chambers.
	
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/associations (determined based on the total members of such 
body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. No. Name of the trade and industry chambers/ 
associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1
International Market Assessment India Private Ltd. (IMA)
National
2
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
3
Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India 
(ASSOCHAM)
National
4
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and 
Industry (FICCI)
National
5
Bombay Chambers of Commerce and Industry
National
6
Water Quality India Association (WQAI)
National
7
IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry
National
8
The Advertising Standards Council of India
National
9
Retailers Association of India (RAI)
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the 
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
Nil
Nil
Nil
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current financial year
Name and brief 
details of the 
project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by 
an independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in the public domain 
(Yes / No)
Relevant 
Weblink
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide information on the project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being 
undertaken by your entity, in the following format:
S. 
No.
Name of Project 
for which R&R 
is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project
Affected Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs 
in the FY (In INR)
Not Applicable
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
The Company actively engages in community programmes aimed at fostering strong relationships. Through regular 
interactions and attentive listening, the Company works to understand and respond to community concerns. Timely and 
effective actions are prioritised, reflecting the Company’s commitment to supporting community wellbeing.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
EFL
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
62%
62%*
Directly from within India
80%
62%**
	
Note: *Sourcing from Factory
	
**Sourcing from within 250 Km of Factory
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost
Location
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Rural
2.26%
1.39%
Semi-urban
1.08%
4.59%
Urban
13.60%
4.28%
Metropolitan
83.06%
89.74%
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential indicator
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
The Company has a robust system in place to manage customer complaints and feedback effectively. 
Customers can connect through various channels, including the Call Centre, WhatsApp, Email, IVR, and the official 
website. Further contact details are available at www.eurekaforbes.com/contactus. An Escalation Management Team 
(EMT) operates from both the head office and key strategic locations. A structured escalation hierarchy is in place, 
with dedicated Service Heads in each region supported by a team of experienced service leaders to ensure timely 
and satisfactory resolution of customer issues.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information 
about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
100%
Safe and responsible usage
100%
Recycling and/or safe disposal
30%
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
164
165
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2024-25
Remarks
FY 2023-24
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data privacy
0
0
-
0
0
-
Advertising
1
1
-
2
0
Consumer 
complaints 
received via 
the Advertising 
Standards 
Council 
of India 
have been 
successfully 
resolved.
Cyber-security
0
0
-
0
0
-
Delivery of 
essential 
services
0
0
-
0
0
-
Restrictive 
Trade Practices
0
0
-
0
0
-
Unfair Trade 
Practices
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other*
144
135
-
95
82
-
	
* The Complaints pertain to product and service-related matter.
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
0
0
Forced recalls
0
0
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy
	
The Company complies with all applicable standards and regulations related to cybersecurity and data privacy. 
An Information Security Policy is in place, applicable to EFL Group employees, external and third-party personnel 
(including vendors, consultants, interns, and contractors), as well as clients or customers visiting EFL Group offices 
who have access to company information or information processing facilities. This policy is reviewed annually to 
ensure continued relevance and effectiveness. Additionally, the Company has implemented a Privacy Policy to 
safeguard customer data. For more details, refer to Privacy Policy.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery 
of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product 
recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
Not Applicable
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a. 	
Number of instances of data breaches: None
 
b.  Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: None
	
c. 	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches: Not Applicable
Annexure – 8
To,
The Board of Directors
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
Sub.: Compliance Certificate for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 – Regulation 17(8) read with Part B of 
Schedule II of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI LODR”)
In compliance with Regulation 17(8) read with Part B of Schedule II of SEBI LODR, it is certified that:
A.	
We have reviewed Financial Statements and the Cash Flow Statement for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 
and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
	
a.	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements 
that might be misleading;
	
b.	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with 
existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which 
are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
C.	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that they have 
evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and we have 
disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if 
any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
D.	
We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee:
	
a.	
significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
	
b.	
there are no significant changes in accounting policies during the year; and
	
c.	
there were no instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if 
any, of the management or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over 
financial reporting.
Thanking you
	
	
For Eureka Forbes Limited
Pratik Pota 	
Gaurav Khandelwal
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer 	
	
Chief Financial Officer
DIN: 00751178	
	
Date: May 16, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Eureka Forbes Limited
166
Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
167
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Independent Auditor’s Report
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial 
statements of Eureka Forbes Limited (the “Company”), 
which comprise the Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2025, 
and the Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Income), the Statement of Cash Flows and 
the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended on 
that date, and notes to the financial statements, including 
a summary of material accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the 
Act, (“Ind AS”) and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company 
To The Members of 
Eureka Forbes Limited
as at 31 March 2025, and its profit, total comprehensive 
income, its cash flows and the changes in equity for the 
year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial 
statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing 
(“SA”s) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of 
the Standalone Financial Statements section of our report. 
We are independent of the Company in accordance with 
the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“ICAI”) together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the standalone 
financial statements under the provisions of the Act and 
the Rules made thereunder, and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe 
that the audit evidence obtained by us is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
standalone financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone 
financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these 
matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key Audit Matter
Auditor’s Response
Impairment 
of 
Intangible 
assets 
(Brand 
Name 
/ Trademarks) with indefinite life and Goodwill 
impairment.
Refer Note 5 and 33S to the standalone Ind AS financial 
statements.
The standalone balance sheet of the Company as on 31 
March 2025 comprises of ` 310,070 lakhs of intangible 
assets with indefinite life and ` 205,582 lakhs of goodwill, 
pertaining to acquisition of a business in the earlier years, 
which in aggregate represents 82% of the total assets of 
the Company.
The recoverable value of the intangible assets with 
indefinite life and goodwill which is based on the value in 
use model, has been derived using the discounted cash 
flow (DCF) method. This method requires the Company to 
make significant assumptions such as discount rate, near 
and long-term revenue growth rate and projected margins 
which involves inherent uncertainty since they are based 
on future business prospects and economic outlook.
Principal audit procedures performed:
We obtained understanding of the process followed by 
the Company in respect of the assessment of impairment 
of Intangible assets (Brand Name / Trademarks) with 
indefinite life and Goodwill.
n 
 Evaluated Company’s accounting policy in respect of 
impairment assessment of Intangibles with indefinite 
life and goodwill.
n 
 Evaluated the design and implementation and testing 
the operating effectiveness of key internal controls 
related to the Company’s process relating to the 
impairment analysis, key assumptions and review of 
the valuation methodology.
n 
 Assessed the professional competence, objectivity 
and expertise of those involved in performing the 
valuation exercise for the Company.
n 
 Obtained understanding of the cash flow projections 
and assumptions used in the DCF model.
Eureka Forbes Limited
168
Key Audit Matter
Auditor’s Response
Due to the materiality of above assets in the context of the 
standalone financial statements and judgements applied 
in determining the recoverable value, we have considered 
assessment of impairment of Intangible assets (Brand 
Name / Trademarks) with indefinite life and Goodwill to be 
a key audit matter.
n 
 Tested the appropriateness of the input data 
considered for the purposes of valuation by reconciling 
the projected cash flows with the underlying business 
plan and related details.
n 
 Involved the internal valuation professionals with 
specialized skills and knowledge to assist in 
evaluating the impairment model used, evaluating the 
mathematical accuracy and assumptions (including 
discount rate and growth rate applied by the Company) 
and applying additional sensitivities to assess the 
reasonableness of the above key assumptions.
n 
 Performed a sensitivity analysis to evaluate the 
impact of change in key assumptions individually or 
collectively to the recoverable value.
n 
 Evaluated the adequacy of the Company’s disclosures 
in the standalone financial statements in respect of its 
impairment testing.
Information Other than the Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon
n 
 The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for 
the other information. The other information comprises 
the 
information 
included 
in 
the 
Management 
Discussion and Analysis and Board’s Report including 
annexures to Board’s Report, but does not include 
the consolidated financial statements, standalone 
financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. 
The aforesaid other information is expected to be made 
available to use after the date of this auditor’s report.
n 
 Our opinion on the standalone financial statements 
does not cover the other information and will not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
n 
 In connection with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the 
standalone financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained during the course of our audit or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated.
n 
 When we read the other information, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we are 
required to communicate the matter to those charged 
with governance as required under SA 720 ‘The 
Auditor’s responsibilities Relating to Other Information’
Responsibilities of Management and Board of 
Directors for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the 
preparation of these standalone financial statements that 
give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial 
performance including other comprehensive income, cash 
flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
including Ind AS specified under section 133 of the Act. 
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of 
the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the financial statements that give a true and 
fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error.
In 
preparing 
the 
standalone 
financial 
statements, 
management and Board of Directors are responsible for 
assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting 
unless the Board of Directors either intend to liquidate 
the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic 
alternative but to do so.
The Company’s Board of Directors is also responsible for 
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the standalone financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
169
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
n 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.
• 
 Obtain 
an 
understanding 
of 
internal 
financial 
controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. 
Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also 
responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the 
Company has adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements in place 
and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
n 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by the management.
n 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report 
to the related disclosures in the standalone financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the 
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause 
the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
n 
 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the 
standalone financial statements that, individually or in 
aggregate, makes it probable that the economic decisions 
of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the standalone 
financial statements may be influenced. We consider 
quantitative materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning 
the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results 
of our work; and (ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified 
misstatements in the standalone financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal financial controls that 
we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the standalone financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Report 
on 
Other 
Legal 
and 
Regulatory 
Requirements
1. 
 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our 
audit we report that:
 
a) 
 We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit.
 
b) 
 In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law have been kept by the Company 
so far as it appears from our examination 
of those books.
 
c) 
 The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and 
Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, 
the Statement of Cash Flows and Statement of 
Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account.
 
d) 
 In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Ind AS specified 
under Section 133 of the Act.
 
e) 
 On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors as on 31 March 2025 
taken on record by the Board of Directors, none of 
Eureka Forbes Limited
170
the directors is disqualified as on 31 March 2025 
from being appointed as a director in terms of 
Section 164(2) of the Act.
 
f) 
 With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements of the Company and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls, 
refer to our separate Report in “Annexure A”. 
Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on 
the adequacy and operating effectiveness of 
the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements.
 
g) 
 With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the 
requirements of section 197(16) of the Act, as 
amended, in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations 
given to us, the remuneration paid/ provided by 
the Company to its directors during the year is 
in accordance with the provisions of section 
197 of the Act.
 
h) 
 With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 
11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, as amended in our opinion and to the 
best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
 
 
i. 
 The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position 
in 
its 
standalone 
financial 
statements 
- Refer Note 33A to the standalone 
financial statements;
 
 
ii. 
 The Company did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts 
for 
which 
there 
were 
any 
material 
foreseeable losses.
 
 
iii. 
 There were no amounts which were required 
to be transferred to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund by the Company.
 
 
iv. 
(a)  The Management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in the note 33E to 
the financial statements no funds have 
been advanced or loaned or invested 
(either from borrowed funds or share 
premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) by the Company to or in any 
other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly 
lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Company 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
 
 
 
(b)  The Management has represented, 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in the note 33F to 
the financial statements, no funds have 
been received by the Company from 
any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, directly or indirectly, lend or 
invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
 
 
 
(c)  Based 
on 
the 
audit 
procedures 
performed that have been considered 
reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, nothing has come 
to our notice that has caused us to 
believe that the representations under 
sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), 
as provided under (a) and (b) above, 
contain any material misstatement.
 
 
v. 
 The Company has not declared or paid 
any dividend during the year and has not 
proposed final dividend for the year.
 
 
vi. 
 Based on our examination, which included 
test checks, the Company has used 
accounting software systems for maintaining 
its books of account for the financial year 
ended 31 March 2025 which have the feature 
of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and 
the same has operated throughout the year 
for all relevant transactions recorded in 
the software systems. Further, during the 
course of our audit we did not come across 
any instance of the audit trail feature being 
tampered with and the audit trail has been 
preserved by the Company as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
171
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
2. 
 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government in 
terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in “Annexure B” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 
4 of the Order.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No.117366W/W-100018)
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Place: Mumbai 
 Membership No. 049660
Date: 16 May 2025 
 (UDIN: 25049660BMOCBU9079)
Eureka Forbes Limited
172
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements of Eureka Forbes Limited 
(the “Company”) as at 31 March 2025 in conjunction with 
our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial statements of 
the Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s 
and 
Board 
of 
Directors’ 
Responsibilities for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s management and Board of Directors 
are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements based on the internal control with reference 
to standalone financial statements criteria established 
by the Company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit 
of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India”. 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to 
the company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the 
prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required 
under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements of the Company based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India and the Standards 
on Auditing prescribed under Section 143(10) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit 
of internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance 
Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and 
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements was 
established and maintained and if such controls operated 
effectively in all material respects.
Annexure “A” to the Independent Auditor’s Report
(Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements 
and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements included obtaining an understanding of internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements
A company’s internal financial control with reference to 
standalone financial statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s 
internal financial control with reference to standalone 
financial 
statements 
includes 
those 
policies 
and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records 
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; 
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the company are being made only in accordance 
with authorisations of management and directors of the 
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, 
use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have 
a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements, 
including 
the 
possibility 
of 
collusion 
or 
improper 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
173
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
management override of controls, material misstatements 
due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements 
to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal 
financial control with reference to standalone financial 
statements may become inadequate because of changes 
in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the Company has, in all 
material respects, an adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements and such 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements were operating effectively as at 31 
March 2025, based on “the criteria for internal financial 
control with reference to standalone financial statements 
established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India”.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No.117366W/W-100018)
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Place: Mumbai 
 Membership No. 049660
Date: 16 May 2025 
 (UDIN: 25049660BMOCBU9079)
Eureka Forbes Limited
174
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us 
and given by the Company and the books of account and 
records examined by us in the normal course of audit and 
to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that,
(i) 
(a) (A)  The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars, including 
quantitative details and situation of Property, 
Plant and Equipment.
 
 
(B)  The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of intangible assets.
 
(b)  The Company has a program of verification 
of property, plant and equipment, so to cover 
all the items once every three years, which 
in our opinion, is reasonable having regard 
to the size of the Company and the nature of 
its assets. Pursuant to the program, all the 
Property, Plant and Equipment were due for 
verification during the year and were physically 
verified by the Management during the year. 
Annexure “B” to the Independent Auditor’s Report
(Referred to in paragraph 2 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report to the 
members of Eureka Forbes Limited of even date)
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, no material discrepancies were 
noticed on such verification.
 
(c)  With respect to immovable properties (other than 
properties where the Company is the lessee 
and the lease agreements are duly executed 
in favour of the Company) disclosed in the 
financial statements included in property, plant 
and equipment, according to the information 
and explanations given to us and based on the 
examination of the registered sale deed / transfer 
deed / conveyance deed provided to us, we 
report that, the title deeds of such immovable 
properties are held in the name of the Company 
as at the balance sheet date and Immovable 
properties of land and buildings whose title 
deeds have been pledged as security for loans 
are held in the name of the Company based on 
the confirmations directly received by us from 
lenders, except for the following:
Sr. 
No.
Description of the property
As at Balance sheet date
Held in the 
name of
Whether 
promoter, 
Director, 
or their 
relative or 
employee
Period 
held since
(Refer 
Note 
below)
Gross 
carrying 
value
(` in lakhs)
Net Carrying 
value
(` in lakhs)
1
B1/B2 701 Marathon Innova, 
Marathon NextGen, Off. Ganpatrao 
Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, 
Mumbai 400 013
 5,141.20
 4,817.83
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
2
Flat No. 701, 7th Floor, Sterling Sea 
Face, “A” Wing, Dr. Annie Besant 
Road, Worli, Mumbai – 400 018.
 918.05
 852.33
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
3
Flat No.1103, 11th Floor, Sterling 
Sea Face, “B” Wing, Dr. Annie 
Besant Road, Worli, Mumbai – 400 
018.
 918.05
 854.07
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
4
Sarkar Castle Co-op. Hsg. Soc. 
Ltd., Flat No. 501, 5th Floor, 43 
Chimbai Road, Bandra (west)
Mumbai – 400 050.
 255.87
 231.76
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
175
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Sr. 
No.
Description of the property
As at Balance sheet date
Held in the 
name of
Whether 
promoter, 
Director, 
or their 
relative or 
employee
Period 
held since
(Refer 
Note 
below)
Gross 
carrying 
value
(` in lakhs)
Net Carrying 
value
(` in lakhs)
5
Eden Wood “Cedar House” Co-op, 
Hsg. Society Ltd., Flat No.8C, 
Eden Woods, Village Chitalsar, 
Manpada, Smt. Glady’s Alvares 
Marg, Thane (West) – 400 061.
300.03
273.46
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
6
Eden Wood “Cedar House” Co-op, 
Hsg. Society Ltd., Flat No.8D, 
Eden Woods, Village Chitalsar, 
Manpada, Smt. Glady’s Alvares 
Marg, Thane (West) – 400 061.
7
Eden Wood “Cedar House” Co-op, 
Hsg. Society Ltd., Flat No. 9C, 
Eden Woods, Village Chitalsar, 
Manpada, Smt. Glady’s Alvares 
Marg, Thane (West) – 400 061.
8
D-28/3, TTC Indl. Area Behind, 
Turbhe Telephone Exchange, 
Turbhe, Navi Mumbai - 400 705.
 41.06
 37.13
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
9
201 B, 2nd Floor, The Orion 5, 
Koregaon Road, Pune – 411 001.
 708.18
 657.06
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
10
Shop No.201, 2nd Floor, South End 
Cnclave, R. B. Connector, EKADP, 
Kolkata - 700 078.
 389.66
 362.67
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
11
Vedic Village Unit No. L – F8, 
Shikharpur, P. S. Rajarhet North 24 
Parganas, Kolkata 700 135
 122.40
 114.40
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
12
3rd floor, Nikhilesh Palace, Opp.
Jawahar Nagar, 164/ 17-4, Ashpk 
Marg, Lucknow – 226 001
 264.46
 246.29
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
13
Shop No. 203 & 204, 2nd Floor, 
The Guman _ II, “A” Block, Opp. 
Tagore Public School, Vaishali 
Nagar, Jaipur – 302 021
 359.00
 333.35
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
14
Unit No. 402-408, 4th Floor, 
Sapphire heights, Plot No.12, Agra 
- Bombay Road, Indore – 452 010.
 118.00
 109.81
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
15
2nd & 3rd Floor, CLOUD-9, 81/1, The 
Swastik Co. Op. Hsg. Soc. Ltd., 
Navrangpura, Ahmedabad- 380 
009.
 320.00
 297.10
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
16
Shop No. 2, 2nd Floor, Shiv Pooja 
Shopping Centre, City Light Main 
Road, Surat – 395 .
 323.31
 300.85
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
17
Office NO. 102, 1st Floor, Ivory 
Terrace, R. C. Dutta Road, 
Alkapuri, Baroda –390 005.
 206.58
 192.25
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
18
Ground Floor, Bharati Tower, A- 
Block, Forest Park, Bhubaneswar 
– 751 009.
 308.70
 287.59
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
Eureka Forbes Limited
176
Sr. 
No.
Description of the property
As at Balance sheet date
Held in the 
name of
Whether 
promoter, 
Director, 
or their 
relative or 
employee
Period 
held since
(Refer 
Note 
below)
Gross 
carrying 
value
(` in lakhs)
Net Carrying 
value
(` in lakhs)
19
Shop No. B4 on 2nd Floor, B5, C5 
&D5 on 3rd Floor, “Anmol Palani”, 
No.88, G.N. Chetty Road. T. Nagar, 
Chennai – 600 017
522.18
 484.29
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
20
Shop No. B5 on 3rd Floor, “Anmol, 
Palani”, No.88, G. N. Chetty 
Road.T. Nagar, Chennai – 600 017
21
Shop No. C5 & D5 on 3rd Floor, 
“Anmol Palani”, No.88, G. N. 
ChettyRoad. T. Nagar, Chennai – 
600017
22
Unit No. 506,5th Floor, Pavani 
Prestige, Commercial Building 
Complex,6-3-789, Ammerpet, 
Hyderabad – 500 016.
 85.94
 79.75
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
23
Unit No. 506,507 & 508, 5th Floor, 
Pavani Prestige, Commercial 
Building Complex, 6-3-789, 
Ammerpet, Hyderabad – 500 016.
 328.58
 304.76
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
24
4th Floor, Tutus Tower, NH –47, 
Bye-Pass Road, Padivattom, 
Cochin -682 024.
 286.00
 266.30
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
25
Khasra No.3946,3961-62, Lal 
Tappar Industrial Area, Majri Grant, 
Dehradun-248140
3462.28
3194.03
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
26
No. 143, C-4, Bommasandra 
Industrial Area, Off Hosur Road, 
Bangalore -560099
6108.51
5782.30
Erstwhile 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
 
 
Note: Reason for all the above properties not being held in the name of the Company
 
 
 The title deeds of the immovable properties are in the name of erstwhile Eureka Forbes Limited (“the EFL”). Due to the scheme 
of arrangement in the earlier years, EFL was amalgamated into Forbes & Company Limited and the said properties forming 
part of the Undertaking as defined in the scheme was demerged from Forbes & Company Limited into Forbes Enviro Solutions 
Limited, which has been renamed as Eureka Forbes Limited. The Company is in the process of getting the title transferred in 
its name pursuant to the aforesaid scheme of arrangement.
 
(d)  The Company has not revalued any of its property, 
plant and equipment (including Right of Use 
assets) and intangible assets during the year.
 
(e)   No proceedings have been initiated during the 
year or are pending against the Company as at 
31 March 2025 for holding any benami property 
under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) 
Act, 1988 (as amended in 2016) and rules 
made thereunder.
(ii) 
(a)  The inventories except for (goods-in-transit and 
stocks held with third parties), were physically 
verified during the year by the Management at 
reasonable intervals. In our opinion and based 
on information and explanations given to us, the 
coverage and procedure of such verification by 
the Management is appropriate having regard 
to the size of the Company and the nature of its 
operations. For stocks held with third parties at 
the year-end, written confirmations have been 
obtained and in respect of goods in transit, the 
goods have been received subsequent to the 
year-end or required supporting are verified. 
No discrepancies of 10% or more in the aggregate 
for each class of inventories were noticed on 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
177
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
such physical verification of inventories/alternate 
procedures performed as applicable, when 
compared with the books of account.
 
(b)   According to the information and explanations 
provided to us, the Company has been 
sanctioned working capital limits exceeding `5 
crores, in aggregate, at points of time during 
the year, from banks on the basis of security of 
current assets. In our opinion and according to 
the information and explanations given to us, 
the revised quarterly returns and statements 
comprising stock statements, and Statement of 
ageing analysis of trade receivables filed by the 
Company with such banks are in agreement with 
the unaudited books of account of the Company, 
of the respective quarters. For the quarter ended 
March 2025, the Company is in process of 
submitting, the returns/statements to the Banks.
(iii)  The Company has not made any investments in, 
provided any guarantee or security, and granted any 
loans or advances in the nature of loans, secured 
or unsecured, to companies, firms, Limited Liability 
Partnerships or any other parties during the year, and 
hence reporting under clause 3(iii) of the Order is 
not applicable.
(iv)  According to information and explanation given to 
us, the Company has not granted any loans, made 
investments or provided guarantees or securities, 
during the year that are covered under the provisions 
of sections 185 or 186 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
and hence reporting under clause (iv) of the Order is 
not applicable.
(v)  The Company has not accepted any deposit or amounts 
which are deemed to be deposits. Hence, reporting 
under clause (v) of the Order is not applicable.
(vi)  The maintenance of cost records has been specified 
by the Central Government under section 148(1) of 
the Companies Act, 2013. We have broadly reviewed 
the books of account maintained by the Company 
pursuant to the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) 
Rules, 2014, as amended, prescribed by the Central 
Government for maintenance of cost records under 
Section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, and are 
of the opinion that, prima facie, the prescribed cost 
records have been made and maintained by the 
Company. We have, however, not made a detailed 
examination of the cost records with a view to 
determine whether they are accurate or complete.
(vii)   According to the information and explanations given 
to us, in respect of statutory dues:
 
(a)  Undisputed statutory dues, including Goods 
and Services Tax, Provident Fund, Employees’ 
State Insurance, Income-tax, Sales tax, duty of 
Custom, cess and other material statutory dues 
applicable to the Company have generally been 
regularly deposited by it with the appropriate 
authorities though there has been a delay in few 
cases in respect of remittance of Employees’ 
State Insurance and Goods and Services Tax. 
We have been informed that the provisions of 
the duty of Excise and Value added tax are not 
applicable to the Company.
 
 
 There were no undisputed amounts payable 
in respect of Goods and Service tax, Provident 
Fund, Income-tax, Sales Tax, Service Tax, duty of 
Custom, Duty of Excise, Value Added Tax, cess 
and other material statutory dues in arrears as at 
31 March 2025 for a period of more than six 
months from the date they became payable.
 
(b)  Details of statutory dues referred to in sub-clause (a) above which have not been deposited as on 31 March 2025 
on account of disputes are given below:
Name of the 
Statute
Nature of 
Dues
Forum where dispute is 
pending
Period to which the 
amount relates
 Amount 
Involved
(` in lakhs)
 Amount 
Unpaid^
(` in lakhs)
Central 
Excise Act, 
1944
Excise 
Duty
Appellate Tribunal
AY 2001-03
56.51
56.51
Principal Commissioner of 
Central Excise
AY 2001-02 to
AY 2006-07 and
AY 2015-16
493.26
485.36
CESAT, Bangalore
AY 2015-16 to
893.04
822.65
AY 2018-19
Income Tax 
Act, 1961
Income 
Tax
Tribunal
AY 2008-09
84.68
84.68
CIT (A)
AY 2016-17,
1,539.05
1,539.05
AY 2017-18,
AY 201819,
AY 2019-20,
AY 2020-21
Eureka Forbes Limited
178
Name of the 
Statute
Nature of 
Dues
Forum where dispute is 
pending
Period to which the 
amount relates
 Amount 
Involved
(` in lakhs)
 Amount 
Unpaid^
(` in lakhs)
Sales Tax Act
Sales Tax
Deputy Commissioner Of 
Commercial Taxes
AY 2003- 04,
255.29
191.44
AY 2004-05,
AY 2007-08 to  
AY 2014-15
AY 2013-14,
AY 201617
AY 201718c
Joint Commissioner Of 
Commercial Taxes
AY 2014-15
0.89
0.71
Assistant Commissioner Of 
Sales Tax - Appeals
AY 2016-17
3.96
3.32
AY 2017-18
Assistant Commissioner 
(assessment) Special 
Circle-II
AY 1999-00 to  
AY 2005-06
1,988.05
1,454.42
AY 2013-14
Assessing Authority
AY 2017-18
0.75
0.37
AY 2001-02 and  
AY 2004-05
351.28
221.71
The Appellate Tribunal
AY 2017-18
42.88
42.77
Joint Commissioner 
(appeals) Trade Tax
AY 2004-05
6.48
4.21
Assistant Commissioner 
(ST)
AY 2018-19
0.02
0.02
Deputy Commissioner Of 
State Tax (Appeals)
AY 2003-04 and  
AY 2005-06
0.96
0.86
Chapter V, 
Finance Act, 
1994
Service 
Tax
Custom, Central Excise 
and Service Tax Appellate 
Tribunal
AY 2012-13 to  
AY 2018-19
858.03
797.57
Central 
Goods & 
Service Tax 
Act, 2017
Goods & 
Service 
Tax
High Court of Karnataka
AY 2018-19 and  
AY 2019-20
42.68
42.68
Joint Commissioner 
Appeals
AY 2018-19
9.67
9.67
Appeal pending to be filed 
due to non-constitution 
of GST tribunal- (West 
Bengal)
AY 2019-20
7.08
7.08
First appellate authority- 
Uttar Pradesh State Tax
AY 2019-20
5.94
5.35
First appellate authority- 
Himachal Pradesh State 
Tax
AY 2018-19 and  
AY 2019-20
1.59
1.59
High Court of Karnataka
AY 2018-19
1,259.56
1,259.56
First appellate authority- 
Uttarakhand State Tax
AY 2018-19 and  
AY 2019-20
5.64
5.64
First appellate authority - 
Maharashtra State Tax
AY 2019-20
85.69
81.57
First Appellate authority, 
Telangana Central tax
AY 2018-19 to  
AY 2020-21
56.85
52.58
First Appellate authority, 
State tax, West Bengal
AY 2018-19
24.60
 23.48
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
179
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Name of the 
Statute
Nature of 
Dues
Forum where dispute is 
pending
Period to which the 
amount relates
 Amount 
Involved
(` in lakhs)
 Amount 
Unpaid^
(` in lakhs)
Chapter V, 
Finance Act, 
1994
Central 
Goods & 
Service Tax 
Act, 2017
Goods & 
Service 
Tax
First Appellate authority, 
State tax, Punjab
AY 2018-19
24.69
 23.42
First Appellate authority, 
State tax, Gujarat
AY 2018-19
2.15
 2.15
First Appellate authority, 
Himachal Pradesh State 
tax
AY 2020-21
1.03
 1.03
First Appellate authority, 
Himachal Pradesh State 
tax
AY 2019-20
0.98
0.98
First Appellate authority, 
Uttarakhand Stata tax
AY 2019-20
14.64
14.64
First Appellate Authority, 
Haryana State tax
AY 2018-19,
AY 2019-20
21.14
21.14
First Appellate Authority, 
Maharashtra State Tax
AY 2019-20
0.70
0.65
First Appellate Authority, 
Punjab State Tax
AY 2019-20
90.79
86.08
First Appellate Authority, 
Maharashtra State Tax
AY 2020-21
0.84
0.78
First Appellate Authority, 
Madhya Pradesh State Tax
AY 2020-21
67.19
61.08
First Appellate Authority, 
Jammu and Kashmir State 
Tax
AY 2020-21
4.36
4.15
First Appellate Authority, 
Tamil Nadu State Tax
AY 2020-21
159.97
145.43
First Appellate Authority, 
Karnataka State Tax
AY 2020-21
25.00
23.65
First Appellate Authority, 
Gujarat State Tax
AY 2018-19
0.72
0.68
First Appellate Authority, 
Uttarakhand State Tax
AY 2018-19
To AY 2021-22
62.35
59.23
First Appellate Authority, 
Punjab State Tax
AY 2021-22
9.97
9.97
First Appellate Authority, 
Karnataka State Tax
AY 2018-19
68.63
65.20
First Appellate Authority, 
Gujarat State Tax
AY 2021-22
25.90
24.53
First Appellate Authority, 
Andhra Pradesh State Tax
AY 2018-19
6.01
5.71
First Appellate Authority, 
Punjab State Tax
AY 2018-19
4.62
4.39
Rajasthan 
Stamp Act, 
1988
Stamp 
Duty
Rajasthan Tax Board
FY 2022-23
960.08
960.08
 
 
^ Amount unpaid is net of the amounts paid under protest.
Eureka Forbes Limited
180
(viii)  There were no transactions relating to previously 
unrecorded income that were surrendered or disclosed 
as income in the tax assessments under the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) during the year.
(ix) (a)  In our opinion, the Company has not defaulted 
in the repayment of loans or other borrowings or 
in the payment of interest thereon to any lender 
during the year.
 
(b)  The Company has not been declared wilful 
defaulter by any bank or financial institution or 
government or any government authority.
 
(c)  The Company has not taken any term loan during 
the year and there are no unutilised term loans at 
the beginning of the year and hence, reporting 
under clause (ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
 
(d)  On an overall examination of the financial 
statements of the Company, funds raised on 
short-term basis have, not been used during the 
year for long-term purposes by the Company.
 
(e)  On an overall examination of the financial 
statements of the Company, the Company has 
not taken any funds from any entity or person 
on account of or to meet the obligations of its 
subsidiaries. The Company did not have any joint 
ventures or associate companies during the year.
 
(f) 
 The Company has not raised loans during 
the year on the pledge of securities held in its 
subsidiaries companies.
(x) (a)  The Company has not raised moneys by way of 
initial public offer or further public offer (including 
debt instruments) during the year and hence 
reporting under clause (x)(a) of the Order is 
not applicable.
 
(b)  During the year the Company has not made any 
preferential allotment or private placement of 
shares or convertible debentures (fully or partly or 
optionally) and hence reporting under clause (x)
(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xi) (a)  To the best of our knowledge, no fraud by the 
Company and no material fraud on the Company 
has been noticed or reported during the year.
 
(b)  To the best of our knowledge, no report under 
sub-section (12) of section 143 of the Companies 
Act has been filed in Form ADT-4 as prescribed 
under rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 with the Central Government, during 
the year and upto the date of this report.
 
(c)  As represented to us by the Management, there 
were no whistle blower complaints received by 
the Company during the year and upto the date 
of this report.
(xii)  The Company is not a Nidhi Company and 
hence reporting under clause (xii) of the Order is 
not applicable.
(xiii)  In our opinion, the Company is in compliance with 
Section 177 and 188 of the Companies Act, where 
applicable, for all transactions with the related parties 
and the details of related party transactions have been 
disclosed in the financial statements as required by 
the applicable accounting standards.
(xiv) (a)  In our opinion the Company has an adequate 
internal audit system commensurate with the size 
and the nature of its business.
 
(b)  We have considered, the internal audit reports 
issued to the Company during the year and 
covering the period upto December 2024 and 
the final internal audit reports where issued 
after the balance sheet date covering the 
period January 2025 to March 2025 for the 
period under audit.
(xv)  In our opinion during the year the Company has not 
entered into any non-cash transactions with any of its 
directors or directors of it’s holding company, subsidiary 
company or persons connected with such directors 
and hence provisions of section 192 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 are not applicable to the Company.
(xvi) (a)  The Company is not required to be registered 
under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India 
Act, 1934. Hence, reporting under clause (xvi)(a), 
(b) and (c) of the Order is not applicable.
 
(b)  The Group does not have any CIC as part of the 
group and accordingly reporting under clause 
(xvi)(d) of the Order is not applicable.
(xvii) The Company has not incurred cash losses during the 
financial year covered by our audit and the immediately 
preceding financial year.
(xviii)  There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
of the Company during the year.
(xix)  On the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and 
expected dates of realization of financial assets 
and payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying the financial statements and our 
knowledge of the Board of Directors and Management 
plans and based on our examination of the evidence 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
181
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our 
attention, which causes us to believe that any material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report 
indicating that Company is not capable of meeting its 
liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and 
when they fall due within a period of one year from the 
balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not 
an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. 
We further state that our reporting is based on the 
facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither 
give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities 
falling due within a period of one year from the balance 
sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as 
and when they fall due.
(xx)   The Company has fully spent the required amount 
towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and 
there are no unspent CSR amount for the year requiring 
a transfer to a Fund specified in Schedule VII to the 
Companies Act or special account in compliance with 
the provision of sub-section (6) of section 135 of the 
said Act. Accordingly, reporting under clause (xx) of 
the Order is not applicable for the year.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No.117366W/W-100018)
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Place: Mumbai 
 Membership No. 049660
Date: 16 May 2025 
 (UDIN: 25049660BMOCBU9079)
Eureka Forbes Limited
182
Standalone Balance Sheet
as at March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Notes
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
ASSETS
Non-current Assets
(a) 
Property, plant and equipment
 3
 28,243.86 
 27,066.37 
(b) 
Right of use assets
 4
 2,664.54 
 1,591.60 
(c) 
Goodwill
 2,05,581.67 
 2,05,581.67 
(d) 
Other intangible assets
 5
 3,10,070.46 
 3,11,455.07 
(e) 
Intangible assets under development
 6
 192.06 
 122.19 
(f)
Financial assets
(i)
Investments
 7
 2,524.86 
 2,524.86 
(ii)
Trade receivables
 8
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Other financial assets
10
 1,543.83 
 1,220.37 
(g)
Income tax asset (net)
11
 1,598.91 
 2,183.60 
(h)
Other non-current assets 
12
 2,728.32 
 1,265.85 
Total Non-current Assets
 5,55,148.51 
 5,53,011.58 
Current Assets
(a) 
Inventories
13
 24,313.92 
 24,368.54 
(b)
Financial assets
(i)
Investments
 7
 5,894.94 
 5,494.84 
(ii)
Trade receivables
 8
 17,988.66 
 13,718.38 
(iii)
Cash and cash equivalents
14
 6,951.06 
 5,551.79 
(iv)
Bank balances other than (iii) above
14
 15,593.68 
 3,622.00 
(v)
Loans
 9
 5.36 
 6.38 
(vi)
Other financial assets
10
 61.19 
 90.70 
(c) 
Other current assets
12
 5,006.81 
 6,155.54 
Total Current Assets
 75,815.62 
 59,008.17 
Total Assets
 6,30,964.13 
 612,019.75 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
(a)
Equity share capital 
15
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92 
(b)
Other equity 
16
 4,19,149.15 
 4,00,954.79 
Total Equity
 4,38,497.07 
 4,20,302.71 
Liabilities
Non-current Liabilities
(a)
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings 
17
 - 
 - 
(ii)
Lease liabilities 
20
 1,547.04 
 409.66 
(b)
Provisions
21
 95.69 
 357.17 
(c)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
23
 80,811.43 
 81,093.02 
(d)
Other non-current liabilities
22
 15,086.81 
 13,150.68 
Total Non-current Liabilities
 97,540.97 
 95,010.53 
Current Liabilities
(a) 
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings 
17
 - 
 2,491.97 
(ii)
Lease liabilities 
20
 1,008.31 
 969.18 
(iii)
Trade and other payables
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
18
 4,802.80 
 6,865.46 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
18
 13,940.44 
 15,060.55 
(iv)
Other financial liabilities
19
 19,995.53 
 18,343.55 
(b) 
Provisions
21
 2,480.33 
 2,318.11 
(c)
Income tax liabilities (net)
11
 11,328.33 
 5,570.38 
(d)
Other current liabilities
22
 41,370.35 
 45,087.31 
Total Current Liabilities
 94,926.09 
 96,706.51 
Total Liabilities
 1,92,467.06 
 1,91,717.04 
Total Equity and Liabilities
 6,30,964.13 
 6,12,019.75 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Arvind Uppal 
Chairman
(DIN-00104992)
Pratik R. Pota
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN-00751178)
Gaurav Khandelwal 
Chief Financial Officer 
Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
183
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss
for the year ended March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Notes
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I
Income
Revenue from operations
 24
 2,43,606.24
 2,18,922.63
Other income and other gains / (losses) - net
 25
 1,410.20
 852.94
Total Income
 2,45,016.44
 2,19,775.57
II
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
 26
 92,124.38
 83,359.00
Purchases of stock-in-trade
 26
 9,316.88
 10,292.52
Changes in inventories of finished goods, spares, stock-in-
trade and work-in-progress
 26
 45.50
 (3,560.87)
Employee benefits expense
 27
 32,845.02
 32,783.39
Finance costs
 28
 562.04
 971.77
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 29
 5,757.94
 5,312.49
Other expenses
 30
 82,985.43
 76,862.03
Total expenses
 2,23,637.19
 2,06,020.33
III
Profit before exceptional items and tax
 21,379.25
 13,755.24
Add/(Less) : Exceptional items
33T
 507.69
 (1,514.90)
IV
Profit before tax and after exceptional items
 21,886.94
 12,240.34
Less: Tax expense
Current tax
 31
 5,839.88
 3,887.91
Deferred tax benefit
 31
 (281.59)
 (804.42)
 5,558.29
 3,083.49
V
Profit for the year
 16,328.65
 9,156.85
VI
Other Comprehensive Income
(A) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
 
(i) 
 Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans gain/
(loss)
 (458.86)
 (315.04)
 
(ii) 
 Income tax relating to items that will not be 
reclassified to profit/(loss)
 115.45
 79.16
 (343.41)
 (235.88)
VII
Total comprehensive Income for the year
 15,985.24
 8,920.97
Earnings per equity share:
(1) Basic (in `)
32
 8.40
 4.73
(2) Diluted (in `)
32
 8.40
 4.72
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Arvind Uppal 
Chairman
(DIN-00104992)
Pratik R. Pota
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN-00751178)
Gaurav Khandelwal 
Chief Financial Officer 
Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Eureka Forbes Limited
184
Standalone Statement of Cash Flow
for the year ended March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax and after exceptional items 
 21,886.94 
 12,240.34 
Adjustments for: 
Finance costs recognised in profit and loss
 259.21 
 783.02 
Interest on lease liabilities
 302.83 
 188.75 
Gain on modification/disposal of right of use assets 
 - 
 (9.58)
Gain on disposal of investment recognised in profit and loss
 - 
 (47.68)
Interest Income
 (711.07)
 (190.61)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 (153.66)
 (74.05)
Provision/write-off of doubtful debts, advances and other current assets
 (82.87)
 123.85 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses on property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets
 4,374.21 
 4,097.42 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses on right of use assets
 1,383.73 
 1,215.07 
Exceptional Items
 793.43 
 1,514.90 
Fair value of investment at FVTPL
 (400.10)
 (367.21)
Employee stock option scheme reserve
 2,209.12 
 3,448.76 
Net foreign exchange (gain)/loss - unrealised
 (11.76)
 6.37 
Operating profit before working capital changes 
 29,850.01 
 22,929.35 
Movements in working capital:
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables
 (4,187.41)
 (1,582.59)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories
 (738.81)
 (4,758.58)
(Increase)/decrease in loans and advances
 1.02 
 0.14 
(Increase)/decrease in other assets
 1,142.03 
 (746.43)
(Increase)/decrease in other financial assets
 (277.04)
 (24.57)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables
 (3,171.01)
 (928.10)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions
 (558.10)
 (253.34)
Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities
 (128.85)
 4,786.55 
Cash generated from operations
 21,931.84 
 19,422.43 
Less : Income taxes refund received 
 618.17 
 97.07 
Net cash generated from operating activities
 22,550.01 
 19,519.50 
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received
 711.07 
 190.61 
Proceeds from sale of mutual funds
 - 
 2,500.00 
Payments for property, plant and equipment, intangible assets under 
development, capital work in progress and other intangible assets
 (5,949.93)
 (2,945.32)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment
 410.86 
 336.78 
Movement in bank balance other than cash & cash equivalents
 (11,988.59)
 (3,538.99)
Net cash used in investing activities
 (16,816.59)
 (3,456.92)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
185
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Standalone Statement of Cash Flow
for the year ended March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of borrowings
 (2,500.00)
 (2,500.00)
Net decrease in working capital borrowings
 - 
 (7,113.78)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (1,582.97)
 (1,375.48)
Interest paid
 (251.18)
 (757.53)
Net cash used in financing activities
 (4,334.15)
 (11,746.79)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
 1,399.27 
 4,315.79 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 5,551.79 
1,236.00
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 
 6,951.06 
 5,551.79 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents as disclosed above 
 1,399.27 
 4,315.79 
Note: 
1.  
 The above cash flow statement has been prepared under the “Indirect Method” as set out in the Indian Accounting 
Standard (IndAS - 7) statement of cash flows.
2.  
 Changes in carrying amount of Lease liabilities and Borrowings included under financing activities under 
statement of cash flow:
 ` in Lakhs
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities :
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
 3,870.81 
 13,927.77 
Changes due to cash flow
 (4,082.97)
 (10,989.26)
Non cash change (gain)/loss
 2,767.51 
 932.30 
Closing balance
 2,555.35 
 3,870.81 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Arvind Uppal 
Chairman
(DIN-00104992)
Pratik R. Pota
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN-00751178)
Gaurav Khandelwal 
Chief Financial Officer 
Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Eureka Forbes Limited
186
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended March 31, 2025
A.  Equity share capital
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024
Opening Balance at the beginning of the year
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92 
Movement during the year
 - 
 - 
Closing Balance at the end of the year
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92 
B.  Other equity
 
As at March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars 
Reserves and Surplus 
Total Other 
Equity
Retained 
earnings
Securities 
Premium 
Capital 
Reserve 
Employee stock 
option scheme 
reserve
As at April 1, 2024
 9,959.87 
 3,87,063.43 
 482.73 
 3,448.76 
4,00,954.79 
Add: 
Add: Addition during the year
 16,328.65 
 - 
 - 
 2,209.12 
 18,537.77 
Other comprehensive loss for the year, 
net of income tax 
 (343.41)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (343.41)
Total comprehensive income for the 
year 
 15,985.24 
 - 
 - 
 2,209.12 
 18,194.36 
Balance at March 31, 2025 
 25,945.11 
 3,87,063.43 
 482.73 
 5,657.88 
 4,19,149.15 
 
As at March 31, 2024
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars 
Reserves and Surplus 
Total Other 
Equity
Retained 
earnings
Securities 
Premium 
Capital 
Reserve 
Employee stock 
option scheme 
reserve
As at April 1, 2023
 1,038.90 
 3,87,063.43 
 482.73 
 - 
 3,88,585.06 
Add: 
Add: Addition during the year
 9,156.85 
 - 
 - 
 3,448.76 
 12,605.61 
Other comprehensive loss for the year, 
net of income tax 
 (235.88)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (235.88)
Total comprehensive income for the 
year 
 8,920.97 
 - 
 - 
 3,448.76 
 12,369.73 
Balance at March 31, 2024 
 9,959.87 
 3,87,063.43 
 482.73 
 3,448.76 
 4,00,954.79 
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Arvind Uppal 
Chairman
(DIN-00104992)
Pratik R. Pota
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN-00751178)
Gaurav Khandelwal 
Chief Financial Officer 
Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
187
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Background
Eureka Forbes Limited is a limited company incorporated 
and domiciled in India with its registered office situated at 
B1/B2, 701, Marathon Innova, Off Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, 
Lower Parel, (West), Mumbai – 400 013.
The Company is engaged in Manufacturing, selling, 
renting and servicing of Vacuum cleaners, Water Filter cum 
purifiers, trading in electronic air cleaning system etc.
Note 1:  Basis 
of 
preparation 
of 
Financial 
statements
This note provides a list of material accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all the 
years presented unless otherwise stated.
(a)  Compliance with Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS)
 
 These standalone financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) notified under section 133 of the 
Companies Act 2013 (the Act) [ Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015] and other relevant 
provisions of the Act.
(b) Historical Cost convention
 
 The financial statements have been prepared 
on a historical cost basis, on accrual basis of 
accounting except for certain financial assets and 
liabilities (including derivative instruments) that are 
measured at fair value.
(c) Functional and presentation currency
 
 These 
financial 
statements 
are 
presented 
in 
Indian Rupees (`), which is also the Company’s 
functional currency.
(d) Use of estimates and judgements
 
 In preparing these financial statements, management 
has made judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of accounting policies 
and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
 
 Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates 
are recognised prospectively.
 
Judgements
 
 Information about judgements made in applying 
accounting policies that have the most significant 
effects on the amounts recognised in the financial 
statements is included in the following notes :
 
 Note 2(g) and 3 – Useful lives of Property, 
plant and equipment
 
 Note 2(h) and 5 – Useful and indefinite lives of 
Intangible assets
 
Note 2(i) and 36 – Employee Benefit Expense
 
Note 2(o) and 33A– Provisions and Contingent liabilities
 
Note 33I (B) – Estimation for provision of Warranty Claims
 
Note 40 (a) – Impairment of Trade Receivables
 
Note 11 , Note 31, Note 43 and Note 2(m) – Income taxes
 
 Note 23 , Note 31, Note 42 and Note 2(m)– Recognition 
of Deferred taxes
 
Note 2(l)– Refund Liabilities
 
 Note 33S - Impairment testing of goodwill and 
intangible assets with indefinite useful life
 
 Note 27 and Note 37 - Employee share option 
scheme expenses.
 
Share-based payments
 
 Estimating fair value for share-based payment 
transactions requires determination of the most 
appropriate valuation model, which depends on 
the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate 
also requires determination of the most appropriate 
inputs to the valuation model including the expected 
life of the share option or appreciation right, volatility 
and dividend yield and making assumptions about 
them. For the measurement of the fair value of 
equity-settled transactions with employees at the 
grant date, the Company uses a Black Scholes model 
and Monte-Carlo simulation model basis the type of 
option granted. The assumptions and models used 
for estimating fair value for share-based payment 
transactions are disclosed in Note 37.
 
Assumptions and estimation uncertainties
 
 Information 
about 
assumptions 
and 
estimation 
uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in 
a material adjustment in the next year is included in 
the note below.
Eureka Forbes Limited
188
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
(i) 
 Note 33A and Note 33 (I) – Recognition and 
measurement of provisions and contingencies: 
key assumptions about the likelihood and 
magnitude of an outflow of resources.
 
(ii) 
 Note 33S - Impairment testing of goodwill and 
intangible assets with indefinite useful life
 
 
 Assets are tested for impairment on an annual 
basis and whenever there is an indication that 
the recoverable amount is less than its carrying 
amount based on a number of factors including 
operating results, business plans , future cash 
flows and economic conditions. The recoverable 
amount is determined based on higher of 
value-in-use and fair value less cost to sell.
 
 
 Market related information and estimates are 
used to determine the recoverable amount. 
Key assumptions on which management has 
based its determination of recoverable amount 
include estimated long term growth rates, weighted 
average cost of capital and estimated operating 
margins. Cash flow projections take into account 
past experience and represent management’s 
best estimate about future developments.
 
(iii)  Note 
37 
- 
Employee 
share 
option 
scheme expenses.
(e) Measurement of fair values
 
 A number of the Company’s accounting policies and 
disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for 
both financial assets and liabilities.
 
 Fair Value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The Fair value measurement is 
based on the presumption that the transaction to sell 
the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
 
• 
 In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
 
•  
 In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the assets or liability
 
 All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the financial statements 
are categorized within the fair value hierarchy that 
categorizes into three levels, described as follows, 
the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure 
value. the fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority 
to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets 
or liabilities (Level 1 inputs) and lowest priority to 
unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs).
 
 Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets 
for identical assets or liabilities.
 
 Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in 
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 
either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. 
derived from prices).
 
 Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based 
on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
 
 The Company recognises transfers between levels 
of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting 
period during which the change has occurred.
 
 Further information about the assumptions made 
in measuring fair values is included in Note 39 – 
Financial instruments.
Note 2: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
(a) Foreign currency transactions
 
 Transactions in currencies other than company’s 
functional currency i.e. Indian Rupee are recognised 
at the exchange rate prevailing at the dates of 
the transactions.
 
 Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated into the functional currency 
at the exchange rate prevailing at the reporting date. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured 
at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into 
the functional currency at the exchange rate when 
the fair value was determined. Non-monetary assets 
and liabilities that are measured based on historical 
cost in a foreign currency are not translated. 
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss 
not retranslated, except exchange differences arising 
from the translation of the equity investments which 
are recognised at fair value through OCI (FVOCI) are 
recognised in other comprehensive income.
(b) Financial Instruments
 
 Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized 
when the Company becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instruments. Financial assets and 
financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. 
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial 
liabilities (other than financial assets and financial 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
189
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added 
to or deducted from the fair value of the financial 
assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial 
recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to 
the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities 
at fair value through profit or loss are recognised 
immediately in profit or loss.
 
(i) 
Financial Assets
 
 
 All recognised financial assets are subsequently 
measured in their entirety at either amortised cost 
or fair value, depending on the classification of 
the financial assets.
 
 
Classification of financial assets
 
 
 Debt instruments that meet the following 
conditions 
are 
subsequently 
measured 
at 
amortised cost (except for debt instruments that 
are designated as at fair value through profit or 
loss on initial recognition):
 
 
• 
 The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets in order to 
collect contractual cash flows; and
 
 
• 
 the contractual terms of the instrument give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on 
the principal amount outstanding.
 
 
 Investment in equity instruments of subsidiary, 
associates and joint ventures are measured at 
cost less impairment. All other financial assets 
are subsequently measured at fair value.
 
 
Effective interest method
 
 
 The effective interest method is a method 
of calculating the amortised cost of a debt 
instrument and of allocating interest income 
over the relevant period. The effective interest 
rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash receipts (including all fees and points 
paid or received that form an integral part of the 
effective interest rate, transaction costs and other 
premiums or discounts) through the expected 
life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, 
a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on 
initial recognition.
 
 
 Income is recognised on an effective interest basis 
for debt instruments other than those financial 
assets classified as at FVTPL. Interest income is 
recognised in profit or loss and is included in the 
“Other income” line item.
 
 
 Financial assets at fair value through profit or 
loss (FVTPL)
 
 
 Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair 
value at the end of each reporting period, with 
any gains or losses arising on re-measurement 
recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss 
recognised in profit or loss incorporates any 
dividend or interest earned on the financial asset 
and is included in the ‘Other income’ line item.
 
 
 Investments in equity instruments at fair 
value through other comprehensive income 
(FVTOCI)
 
 
 On initial recognition, the Company can make 
an irrevocable election (on an instrument-by-
instrument basis) to present the subsequent 
changes in fair value in other comprehensive 
income. This election is not permitted if the equity 
investment is held for trading. These elected 
investments are initially measured at fair value 
plus transaction costs. Subsequently, they are 
measured at fair value with gains and losses 
arising from changes in fair value recognised in 
other comprehensive income and accumulated in 
the reserve for ‘equity instruments through other 
comprehensive income.
 
(ii) Financial liabilities and equity instruments
 
 
Classification as debt or equity
 
 
 Debt and equity instruments issued by a Company 
are classified as either financial liabilities or as 
equity in accordance with the substance of the 
contractual arrangements and the definitions of a 
financial liability and an equity instrument.
 
 
Equity instruments
 
 
 An equity instrument is any contract that evidences 
a residual interest in the assets of an entity after 
deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments 
issued by the Company are recognised at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
 
 
Financial liabilities
 
 
 All financial liabilities are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method or at FVTPL.
 
 
 Financial liabilities that are not held-for-trading 
and are not designated as at FVTPL are measured 
at amortised cost at the end of subsequent 
accounting periods. The carrying amounts of 
financial liabilities that are subsequently measured 
Eureka Forbes Limited
190
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
at amortised cost are determined based on the 
effective interest method. Interest expense that 
is not capitalised as part of costs of an asset is 
included in the ‘Finance costs’ line item.
(c) Derecognition
 
Financial Assets
 
 The Company derecognises a financial asset when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial 
asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the 
contractual cash flows in a transaction in which 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership 
of the financial asset are transferred or in which the 
Company neither transfers nor retains substantially all 
of the risks and rewards of ownership and does not 
retain control of the financial asset.
 
 If the Company enters into transactions whereby it 
transfers assets recognised on its balance sheet, 
but retains either all or substantially all of the risks 
and rewards of the transferred assets, the transferred 
assets are not derecognised.
 
Financial Liabilities
 
 The Company derecognises a financial liability 
when its contractual obligations are discharged or 
cancelled, or expire.
 
 The Company also derecognises a financial liability 
when its terms are modified and the cash flows under 
the modified terms are substantially different. In this 
case, a new financial liability based on the modified 
terms is recognised at fair value. The difference 
between the carrying amount of the financial liability 
extinguished and the new financial liability with 
modified terms is recognised in profit or loss.
 
Offsetting
 
 Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and 
the net amount presented in the balance sheet when, 
and only when, the Company currently has a legally 
enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends 
either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
(d) Impairment
 
(i) 
Impairment of financial instruments
 
 
 The Company recognises loss allowances 
for expected credit loss on financial assets 
measured at amortised cost, trade receivables, 
other contractual rights to receive cash or other 
financial assets and financial guarantee not 
designated as FVTPL.
 
 
 The Company measures loss allowances at an 
amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses, 
except for the following, which are measured as 
12 month expected credit losses :
 
 
• 
 bank balances for which credit risk (i.e. 
the risk of default occurring over the 
expected life of the financial instrument) 
has 
not 
increased 
significantly 
since 
initial recognition.
 
 
• 
 Loss allowances for trade receivables 
are 
always 
measured 
at 
an 
amount 
equal to lifetime expected credit losses. 
Lifetime expected credit losses are the 
expected credit losses that result from 
all 
possible 
default 
events 
over 
the 
expected life of a financial instrument. 
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ 
for recognition of impairment loss allowance 
for trade receivables. The application of 
simplified approach does not require the 
Company to track changes in credit risk. 
Rather, 
it 
recognizes 
impairment 
loss 
allowance based on lifetime expected credit 
loss at each reporting date, right from its 
initial recognition.
 
 
 12-month expected credit losses are the portion 
of expected credit losses that result from default 
events that are possible within 12 months after the 
reporting date (or a shorter period if the expected 
life of the instrument is less than 12 months).
 
 
 In all cases, the maximum period considered 
when estimating expected credit losses is the 
maximum contractual period over which the 
Company is exposed to credit risk.
 
 
 When determining whether the credit risk of a 
financial asset has increased significantly since 
initial recognition and when estimating expected 
credit losses, the Company considers reasonable 
and supportable information that is relevant and 
available without undue cost or effort. This includes 
both quantitative and qualitative information and 
analysis, based on the Company’s historical 
experience and informed credit assessment and 
including forward- looking information.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
191
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
(ii) Impairment of non-financial assets
 
 
 The Company’s non-financial assets, other than 
inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed 
at each reporting date to determine whether 
there is any indication of impairment. If any such 
indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated.
 
 
 For impairment testing, assets that do not 
generate independent cash inflows are grouped 
together into cash-generating units (CGUs). 
Each CGU represents the smallest group of 
assets that generates cash inflows that are 
largely independent of the cash inflows of other 
assets or CGUs.
 
 
 The recoverable amount of a CGU (or an individual 
asset) is the higher of its value in use and its fair 
value less costs to sell. Value in use is based on 
the estimated future cash flows, discounted to 
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the 
CGU (or the asset).
 
 
 The 
Company’s 
corporate 
assets 
do 
not 
generate independent cash inflows. To determine 
impairment of a corporate asset, recoverable 
amount is determined for the CGUs to which the 
corporate asset belongs.
 
 
 An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying 
amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its estimated 
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
Impairment loss recognised in respect of a CGU 
is allocated the CGU, and then to reduce the 
carrying amounts of the other assets of the CGU 
(or group of CGUs) on a pro rata basis.
 
 
 An impairment loss in respect of assets other 
than goodwill for which impairment loss has 
been recognised in prior periods, the Company 
reviews at each reporting date whether there is 
any indication that the loss has decreased or no 
longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if 
there has been a change in the estimates used 
to determine the recoverable amount. Such a 
reversal is made only to the extent that the asset’s 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined, net 
of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment 
loss had been recognised.
(e) Cash and cash equivalents
 
 For the purpose of presentation in the statement of 
cash flow , cash and cash equivalents including cash 
on hand , deposits held at call with financial institutions, 
other short term, highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash and which are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current 
liabilities in the balance sheet and are not considered 
as integral part of Company’s cash management.
(f) 
Inventories
 
 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net 
realisable value. The cost of inventories is based 
on the weighted average method, and includes 
expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and 
other costs incurred in bringing them to their present 
location and condition.
 
 Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in 
the ordinary course of business, less the estimated 
costs of completion and selling expenses.
 
 The Net realisable value of work-in-progress is 
determined with reference to the selling prices of 
related finished products.
 
 Raw Materials and other supplies held for use in the 
production of finished products are not written down 
below cost except in cases where material prices have 
declined and it is estimated that the cost of the finished 
products will exceed their net realisable value.
(g) Property plant and equipment
 
 Freehold land is carried at historical cost. All other 
items of property ,plant and equipment are stated 
at historical cost less depreciation. Historical cost 
includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the items.
 
 Property, plant and equipment acquired in a business 
combination are recognised at fair value at the 
acquisition date.
 
 Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it is 
probable that the future economic benefits associated 
with the expenditure will flow to the Company.
 
Property, plant and equipment derecognised when it is
 
• 
 no longer expected to generate future economic 
benefit or
 
•  
when it is disposed of
Eureka Forbes Limited
192
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives and 
residual value
 
 Depreciation has been provided on the straight-line 
method as per the useful life prescribed in Schedule 
II to the Companies Act, 2013 except in respect of the 
following categories of property, plant and equipment 
where the useful life is considered differently based 
on technical evaluation. Management belive that such 
estimated useful lives are realistic and reflect fair 
approximation of the period over which the assets are 
likely to be used.
 
 The estimated useful lives of property , plant and 
equipment for the current and comparative periods 
are as follows -
Type of Assets
Period
Plant & Machinery for cleaning 
services
5 years
Plant & Machinery on rent
6 years
Motor Cycles
3 years
Motor Cars
5 years
Office Equipment’s
3 to 5 years
(h) Goodwill and other Intangible assets
 
 Intangible assets are initially measured at cost. 
Such intangible assets are subsequently measured 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and any 
accumulated impairment losses.
 
 An intangible asset arising from development (or 
from the development phase of an internal project) 
is recognised if, and only if, all of the following have 
been demonstrated:
 
(i) 
 the technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for use;
 
(ii) 
 the 
intention 
to 
complete 
the 
intangible asset and use;
 
(iii) the ability to use the intangible asset;
 
(iv)  how the intangible asset will generate probable 
future economic benefits;
 
(v)  the availability of adequate technical, financial 
and other resources to complete the development 
and to use the intangible asset; and
 
(vi)  the ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during 
its development.
 
 The amount initially recognised for intangible assets 
is the sum of the expenditure incurred from the date 
when the intangible asset first meets the recognition 
criteria listed above. Where no intangible asset can be 
recognised, development expenditure is recognised 
in profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.
 
Amortisation
 
 Intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Subsequently, intangible assets are carried at cost 
less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any.
 
 The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed 
as finite or indefinite. Finite-life intangible asset are 
amortised on a Straight line basis over the period of 
their estimated useful lives. Estimated useful lives by 
major class of finite life Intangible assets are as follow:
Type of Assets
Period
Technical Knowhow
5 years
Computer Software 
5 years
Distributor network-Service 
10 years
Distributor network-Product 
10 years
 
 Amortisation method, useful lives and residual values 
are reviewed at the end of each financial year and 
adjusted if appropriate.
 
 Indefinite - life intangible assets comprises of 
brandname/trademarks 
for 
which 
there 
is 
no 
foreseeable Limit to the period over which they are 
expected to generate net cash inflows. These are 
considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength 
and durability of the brands and the level of 
marketing support.
 
 For Indefinite life intangible assets, the assessment 
of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine 
whether it continues, if not, it is impaired or changed 
prospectively basis revised estimates.
 
 Goodwill is initially recognised based on the 
accounting policy for Business combination and is 
tested for impairment annually.
(i) 
Employee Benefits
 
(i) 
Short Term employee benefits
 
 
 Short-term employee benefit obligations are 
measured on an undiscounted basis and are 
expensed as the related service is provided. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
193
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
A liability is recognised for the amount expected 
to be paid e.g., under short-term cash bonus, if 
the Company has a present legal or constructive 
obligation to pay this amount as a result of past 
service provided by the employee, and the 
amount of obligation can be estimated reliably.
 
(ii) Defined Contribution Plans
 
 
 Defined contribution plans are employee state 
insurance scheme and Government administered 
pension / provident fund scheme for all applicable 
employees and superannuation scheme for 
eligible employees. The Company’s contribution 
to defined contribution plans are recognised in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss in the financial 
year to which they relate.
 
 
 The 
Company 
makes 
specified 
monthly 
contributions towards Employee Provident Fund 
scheme to a separate trust administered by the 
Company. The minimum interest payable by 
the trust to the beneficiaries is being notified by 
the Government every year. The Company has 
an obligation to make good the shortfall, if any, 
between the return on investments of the trust 
and the notified interest rate.
 
(iii) Defined Benefit Plans
 
 
Gratuity Scheme
 
 
 The Company operates a defined benefit gratuity 
plan for employees. The Company contributes to 
a separate trust administered by the Company 
towards 
meeting 
the 
Gratuity 
obligation. 
The Company’s liability is determined on the basis 
of an actuarial valuation. Remeasurements of the 
net defined benefit liability as per the actuarial 
valuation report , which comprise actuarial gains 
and losses are recognised in OCI.
 
 
Other long term employee benefits
 
 
 Entitlements to annual leave are recognised 
when they accrue to employees. The Company 
determines the liability for such accumulated 
leaves using the Projected Accrued Benefit 
method with actuarial valuations being carried 
out at each Balance Sheet date.
 
(iv) Employee stock option scheme policy
 
 
 Employees of the Company receive remuneration 
in the form of share-based payments, whereby 
employees render services in exchange for 
equity instruments (equity-settled transactions).
 
Equity-settled transactions
 
 The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined 
by the fair value at the date when the grant is made 
using an appropriate valuation model.
 
 That cost is recognised in employee benefits expense, 
together with a corresponding increase in equity, over 
the period in which the service and, where applicable, 
the performance conditions are fulfilled (the vesting 
period). The cumulative expense recognised for 
equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until 
the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and are the Company’s best 
estimate of the number of equity instruments that will 
ultimately vest. The expense or credit in the statement 
of profit or loss for a period represents the movement 
in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning 
and end of that period.
 
 Service and non-market performance conditions are 
not taken into account when determining the grant date 
fair value of awards, but the likelihood of the conditions 
being met is assessed as part of the Company’s best 
estimate of the number of equity instruments that will 
ultimately vest. Market performance conditions are 
reflected within the grant date fair value. Any other 
conditions attached to an award, but without an 
associated service requirement, are considered to be 
non-vesting conditions. Non-vesting conditions are 
reflected in the fair value of an award and lead to an 
immediate expensing of an award unless there are also 
service and/or performance conditions. No expense 
is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest 
because non-market performance and/or service 
conditions have not been met. Where awards include 
a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions are 
treated as vested irrespective of whether the market or 
non vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other 
performance and/or service conditions are satisfied.
 
 When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, 
the minimum expense recognised is the grant date fair 
value of the unmodified award, provided the original 
vesting terms of the award are met. An additional 
expense, measured as at the date of modification, is 
recognised for any modification that increases the total 
fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or 
is otherwise beneficial to the employee. Where an 
award is cancelled by the entity or by the counterparty, 
any remaining element of the fair value of the award 
is expensed immediately through profit or loss. 
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected 
as additional share dilution in the computation of 
diluted earnings per share (refer Note 32).
Eureka Forbes Limited
194
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
(j) 
Research and Development
 
 Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an 
expense in the period in which it is incurred.
 
 An internally-generated intangible asset arising from 
development (or from the development phase of an 
internal project) is recognised if, and only if, all of the 
following conditions have been demonstrated:
 
•  
 the technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available 
for use or sale;
 
•  
 the intention to complete the intangible asset and 
use or sell it;
 
•  
the ability to use or sell the intangible asset;
 
•  
 how the intangible asset will generate probable 
future economic benefits;
 
•  
 the availability of adequate technical, financial 
and other resources to complete the development 
and to use or sell the intangible asset; and
 
•  
 the ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during 
its development.
 
 The amount initially recognised for internally-generated 
intangible assets is the sum of the expenditure 
incurred from the date when the intangible asset 
first meets the recognition criteria listed above. 
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be 
recognised, development expenditure is recognised 
in profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.
 
 Subsequent to initial recognition, internally-generated 
intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, 
on the same basis as intangible assets that are 
acquired separately.
(k) Exceptional Items
 
 Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the 
financial statements where it is necessary to do so 
to provide further understanding of the financial 
performance of the Company. These are material 
items of income or expense that have to be shown 
separately due to their nature or incidence.
(l) 
Lease Accounting
 
 Ind AS 116 sets out principles for the recognition, 
measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. 
Ind AS 116 introduces a single lessee accounting 
model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and 
liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 
months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. 
For all leases except as noted above, a lessee is 
required to recognise a right-of-use asset (ROU Asset) 
representing its right to use the underlying leased 
asset and a lease liability representing its obligation 
to make lease payments in the balance sheet. 
Lessee will recognise depreciation of right-of-use 
assets and interest on lease liabilities in the statement 
of profit and loss.
 
The Company as a lessee
 
 The Company’s lease asset classes primarily consist 
of leases for Premises. The Company assesses 
whether a contract contains a lease, at inception of 
a contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the 
contract conveys the right to control the use of an 
identified asset for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys 
the right to control the use of an identified asset, the 
Company assesses whether:
 
(i) 
the contract involves the use of an identified asset
 
(ii) 
 the Company has substantially all of the economic 
benefits from use of the asset through the period 
of the lease and
 
(iii)  the Company has the right to direct the 
use of the asset. 
 
 At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Company recognizes a right-of-use asset (“ROU”) 
and a corresponding lease liability for all lease 
arrangements in which it is a lessee, except for leases 
with a term of twelve months or less (short-term 
leases) and low value leases. For these short-term and 
low value leases, the Company recognizes the lease 
payments as an operating expense on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the lease. The lease payments 
are discounted using the interest rate implicit in 
the lease or, if not readily determinable, using the 
incremental borrowing rates in the country of domicile 
of these leases.
 
 The lease payments that are not paid at the 
commencement date are discounted using the interest 
rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be readily 
determined, which is generally the case for leases in 
the Company, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate 
is used, being the rate that the individual lessee would 
have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain 
an asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in 
a similar economic environment with similar terms, 
security and conditions.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
195
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 Lease payments included in the measurement of the 
lease liability comprise:
 
•  
 Fixed lease payments (including in-substance 
fixed payments) payable during the lease term 
and under reasonably certain extension options, 
less any lease incentives;
 
•  
 Variable lease payments that depend on an index 
or rate, initially measured using the index or rate 
at the commencement date;
 
•  
 The amount expected to be payable by the lessee 
under residual value guarantees;
 
•  
 The exercise price of purchase options, if 
the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise 
the options; and
 
•  
 Payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if 
the lease term reflects the exercise of an option to 
terminate the lease.
 
 As a practical expedient, Ind AS 116 permits a 
lessee not to separate non-lease components when 
bifurcation of the payments is not available between 
the two components, and instead account for any 
lease and associated non-lease components as a 
single arrangement. The Company has used this 
practical expedient. Contingent and variable rentals 
are recognized as expense in the periods in which 
they are incurred.
 
 The lease liability is subsequently measured by 
increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on 
the lease liability (using the effective interest method) 
and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect the 
lease payments made.
 
 The Company remeasures the lease liability (and 
makes a corresponding adjustment to the related 
right-of-use asset) whenever:
 
•  
 The lease term has changed or there is a change in 
the assessment of exercise of a purchase option, 
in which case the lease liability is remeasured by 
discounting the revised lease payments using a 
revised discount rate.
 
•  
 A lease contract is modified and the lease 
modification is not accounted for as a separate 
lease, in which case the lease liability is 
remeasured by discounting the revised lease 
payments using a revised discount rate.
 
 The right-of-use assets are initially recognized at cost, 
which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the 
commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct 
costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses. Whenever the Company incurs an 
obligation for costs to dismantle and remove a leased 
asset, restore the site on which it is located or restore 
the underlying asset to the condition required by 
the terms and conditions of the lease, a provision is 
recognised and measured under Ind AS 37. The costs 
are included in the related right-of-use asset, unless 
those costs are incurred to produce inventories.
 
 Right-of-use 
assets 
are 
depreciated 
from 
the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis over 
the shorter of the lease term and useful life of the 
underlying asset. Right of use assets are evaluated 
for recoverability whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts 
may not be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the 
fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is 
determined on an individual asset basis unless the 
asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, 
the recoverable amount is determined for the Cash 
Generating Unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
 
 The Company has entered into lease arrangements 
as a lessee for premises for operating customer 
relationship center , guest houses, head office 
and regional offices , residential premises for their 
employees so as to help the employees to get settled 
to new location and warehouse for receiving, storing 
and dispatch of goods. The average term of leases 
entered into is 3 year Incase of warehouses, on the 
basis of past practice the entire period of the contract 
has been considered for lease term depending on 
the reasonable certainty to continue with the same 
service provider. Generally, these lease contracts do 
not include extension or early termination options.
 
 Extension and termination options are included in 
many of the leases. In determining the lease term the 
management considers all facts and circumstances 
Eureka Forbes Limited
196
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
that create an economic incentive to exercise an 
extension option, or not exercise a termination option.
 
 Lease liability and ROU asset have been separately 
presented in the Balance Sheet and lease payments 
have been classified as financing cash flows.
 
 The aggregate depreciation expense on ROU assets 
is included under depreciation and amortization 
expense in the statement of Profit and Loss.
 
The Company as a lessor
 
 Leases for which the Company is a lessor is classified 
as a finance or operating lease. Whenever the terms 
of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership to the lessee, the contract 
is classified as a finance lease. All other leases are 
classified as operating leases. Ind AS 116 does not 
change substantially how a lessor accounts for leases. 
Under Ind AS 116, a lessor continues to classify 
leases as either finance leases or operating leases 
and account for those two types of leases differently. 
However, Ind AS 116 has changed and expanded the 
disclosures required, in particular with regard to how 
a lessor manages the risks arising from its residual 
interest in leased assets.
 
 When the Company is an intermediate lessor, it 
accounts for its interests in the head lease and the 
sublease separately. The sublease is classified as a 
finance or operating lease by reference to the right-of-
use asset arising from the head lease.
 
 For operating leases, rental income is recognized on a 
straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
(m) Revenue Recognition
 
 The Company derives Revenue from sale of products 
primarily water purifiers and vacuum cleaners and 
providing related maintenance services. Revenue from 
sale of goods is recognised when control of the 
products being sold has transferred to the customer 
upon delivery. Revenue is measured net of taxes, 
returns, discounts, incentives and rebates earned by 
customers on the sales. Revenue from services are 
recognised over the period of time.
 
 A refund liability (included in other current liabilities) is 
recognised for expected volume discounts payable to 
customers in relation to sales made until the end of the 
reporting period.
 
 In relation to certain contracts where installation 
services are provided by the company, same is 
accounted as a separate performance obligation. 
Payment of the transaction price is due immediately 
when the customer purchases the goods/services 
except in certain cases where a credit term is agreed 
between company and customer.
 
 Revenue is only recognised to the extent that it is 
highly probable a significant reversal will not occur. 
An estimate is made for goods that will be returned 
and a liability has been recognised for this amount 
as refund liability (included in other current liabilities). 
An asset has also been recorded (included in other 
current assets) for the corresponding inventory that 
is estimated to return to the company using a best 
estimate based on accumulated experience.
 
 Company’s obligation to repair or replace faulty 
products under the standard warranty terms is 
recognised as provision.
 
 Dividend income is recognised when the right to 
receive payment is established and known.
 
 Interest income from financial asset is recognised 
when it is probable that the economic benefit will flow 
to the company and the amount of income can be 
measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on time 
basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at 
the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate 
that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts 
through the expected life of the financial asset to that 
asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.
(n) Taxation
 
 Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. It is 
recognised in profit & loss except to the extent that 
it relates to a business combination or to an item 
recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive 
income, in which the current and the deferred tax 
is also recognised directly in equity or in other 
comprehensive income.
 
Current Tax
 
 Current tax is measured on the basis of estimated 
income and tax credits computed in accordance with 
the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
 
 Management periodically evaluates positions taken in 
tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
197
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes 
provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts 
expected to be paid to tax authorities.
 
 The entity shall recognise the income tax consequences 
of dividends in profit or loss, other comprehensive 
income or equity according to where the entity originally 
recognised those past transactions or events.
 
 Current tax assets and current tax liabilities are offset 
only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off 
the recognised amounts, and it is intended to realise 
the asset and settle the liability on a net basis or 
simultaneously.
 
Deferred Tax
 
 Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
corresponding amounts used for taxation purposes. 
Deferred tax liability are generally recognised for all 
taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax asset 
(including in respect of carried forward tax losses and 
tax credits) are recognised to the extent it is probable 
that the taxable profit will be available against which 
deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
 
 Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply to the period when the asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on the laws 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the reporting date.
 
Uncertain Tax position
 
 Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in the tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation 
and 
establishes 
provisions 
where 
appropriate. 
The provision is estimated based on one of two 
methods, the expected value method (the sum of the 
probability weighted amounts in a range of possible 
outcomes) or the single most likely amount method, 
depending on which is expected to better predict the 
resolution of the uncertainty.
(o) Earnings Per Share
 
 The Company presents basic and diluted earnings per 
share (EPS) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is 
calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to 
ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during 
the year. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the 
profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 
and the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding after adjusting for the effects of all potential 
dilutive ordinary shares.
(p)  Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent 
Assets
 
 A provision is recognized if, as a result of a past event, 
the Company has a present legal or constructive 
obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is 
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation.
 
 The amount recognised as provision is the best 
estimate of the consideration required to settle 
the present obligation at the end of the reporting 
period taking into account the risk and uncertainties 
surrounding the obligation. When a provision is 
measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the 
present obligation its carrying amount is the present 
value of those cash flows (where the effect of the time 
value of money is material).
 
 Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that arise 
from past events and whose existence will only be 
confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one 
or more future events not wholly within the control of the 
Company. Contingent Liabilities are not recognised in 
the financial statements but are disclosed in the notes.
 
 Contingent assets are disclosed where inflow of 
economic benefit is probable.
(q) Investment in Subsidiaries
 
 The Company has elected to recognize its investments 
in subsidiaries at cost in accordance with the option 
available in IND AS 27, ‘ Separate Financial Statement’. 
The details of such investments are given in Note 7. 
Impairment policy applicable on such investments is 
explained in note 2 (d) above.
(r) 
Borrowing Cost
 
 Borrowing 
Cost 
includes 
interest, 
amortization 
of ancillary cost incurred in connection with the 
arrangement of borrowings and exchange difference 
arising from foreign currency borrowings to the extent 
they are regarded as an adjustment to the interest cost.
 
 Borrowing cost, if any, directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of an asset 
Eureka Forbes Limited
198
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to 
get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised, 
if any. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the 
period in which they occur.
(s) Segment Reporting
 
 Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker.
 
 The board of directors of the Company assesses 
the financial performance and position of the 
Company and makes strategic decisions. The board 
of directors, which has been identified as being the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker, consists of the key 
managerial personnel and the directors who are in 
charge of the corporate planning. Refer Note 33C for 
segment information presented.
(t) 
Recent Pronouncements
 
 Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards 
under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules as issued from time to time. For the year ended 
March 31, 2025, MCA has not notified any new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards 
applicable to the Company.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
199
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 3: Property, plant and equipment
 ` in Lakhs 
Gross Block 
 (refer note (a))
Freehold 
Land 
 (refer note 
(d)) 
Buildings 
(refer note 
(d)) 
Plant and 
Machinery 
 (refer note 
(b)) 
Assets-on 
lease 
 (refer note 
(c)) 
Electrical 
Installation 
& 
Equipment 
Laboratory 
Equipment 
Office 
Equipment 
Furniture 
and 
Fixtures 
Vehicles Computers 
Total 
As at 01 April 2023
 6,405.00 
 14,813.25 
 4,946.39 
 7.19 
 264.41 
 126.07 
 87.12 
 242.48  1,144.26 
 810.57  28,846.74 
Additions
 - 
 99.10 
 1,360.27 
 - 
 27.25 
 13.29 
 34.63 
 59.74 
 24.59 
 255.72 
 1,874.59 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 (112.55)
 - 
 (18.95)
 (26.78)
 (11.93)
 (24.01)
 (163.53)
 (77.63)
 (435.38)
As at March 31, 2024
 6,405.00 
 14,912.35 
 6,194.11 
 7.19 
 272.71 
 112.58 
 109.82 
 278.21  1,005.32 
 988.66  30,285.95 
Additions
 - 
 170.76 
 715.46 
 - 
 35.80 
 87.12 
 124.04 
 1,284.10 
 16.16 
 649.18 
 3,082.62 
Deletions
 - 
 (0.06)
 (57.57)
 - 
 (35.31)
 (1.15)
 (12.83)
 (36.88)
 (374.32)
 (35.39)
 (553.51)
As at March 31, 2025
 6,405.00 
 15,083.05 
 6,852.00 
 7.19 
 273.20 
 198.55 
 221.03 
 1,525.43 
 647.16 
 1,602.45  32,815.06 
Depreciation
As at 01 April 2023
 - 
 513.45 
 555.00 
 0.90 
 40.20 
 26.28 
 32.22 
 51.15 
 283.92 
 318.64 
 1,821.76 
Charge for the year
 - 
 444.88 
 492.02 
 1.14 
 34.72 
 21.72 
 19.55 
 35.74 
 252.92 
 267.76 
 1,570.45 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 (36.06)
 - 
 (4.32)
 (9.32)
 (7.85)
 (13.82)
 (79.21)
 (22.05)
 (172.63)
As at March 31, 2024
 - 
 958.33 
 1,010.96 
 2.04 
 70.60 
 38.68 
 43.92 
 73.07 
 457.63 
 564.35 
 3,219.58 
Charge for the year
 - 
 450.33 
 514.43 
 1.14 
 30.33 
 21.60 
 35.47 
 202.48 
 154.58 
 237.58 
 1,647.94 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 (19.19)
 - 
 (11.70)
 (0.60)
 (7.69)
 (11.30)
 (234.27)
 (11.57)
 (296.32)
As at March 31, 2025
 - 
 1,408.66 
 1,506.20 
 3.18 
 89.23 
 59.68 
 71.70 
 264.25 
 377.94 
 790.36 
 4,571.20 
Net Block
As at March 31, 2024
 6,405.00 
 13,954.02 
 5,183.15 
 5.15 
 202.11 
 73.90 
 65.90 
 205.14 
 547.69 
 424.31  27,066.37 
As at March 31, 2025
 6,405.00 
 13,674.39 
 5,345.80 
 4.01 
 183.97 
 138.87 
 149.33 
 1,261.18 
 269.22 
 812.09  28,243.86 
Notes:
a.  
Refer Note 41 for assets pledged as security.
b.  
Includes moulds given on Lease has a useful life of 15 years and depreciated accordingly.
c.  
Assets given on Lease have a useful life of 6 years and depreciated accordingly.
d.  
 The title deeds in respect of freehold land and buildings which has been accquired in business combination, are held in the name of erstwhile Eureka Forbes Limited. The company 
is in the process of transferring the above freehold land and Buildings in its own name.
Eureka Forbes Limited
200
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs 
Sr. 
No.
Description of the property
As at March 31, 2025
Held in the name 
of
Whether promoter, 
Director, or 
their relative or 
employee
Period held since
Gross 
carrying 
value
Net 
Carrying 
value 
1
B1/B2 701 Marathon Innova, Marathon NextGen, Off. Ganpatrao 
Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013
 5,141.20 
 4,817.83 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
2
Flat No. 701, 7th Floor, Sterling Sea Face, “A” Wing, Dr. Annie 
Besant Road, Worli, Mumbai – 400 018
 918.05 
 852.33 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
3
Flat No.1103, 11th Floor, Sterling Sea Face, “B” Wing, Dr. Annie 
Besant Road, Worli, Mumbai – 400 018.
 918.05 
 854.07 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
4
Sarkar Castle Co-op. Hsg. Soc. Ltd., Flat No. 501, 5th Floor, 43 
Chimbai Road, Bandra (west)Mumbai – 400 050.
 255.87 
 231.76 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
5
Flat No.8C, Eden Wood “Cedar House” Co-op, Hsg. Society Ltd., 
Eden Woods, Village Chitalsar, Manpada, Smt. Glady’s Alvares 
Marg, Thane (West) – 400 061.
 300.03 
 273.46 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
6
Flat No.8D, Eden Wood “Cedar House” Co-op, Hsg. Society Ltd., 
Eden Woods, Village Chitalsar, Manpada, Smt. Glady’s Alvares 
Marg, Thane (West) – 400 061.
7
Flat No. 9C, Eden Wood “Cedar House” Co-op, Hsg. Society 
Ltd., Eden Woods, Village Chitalsar, Manpada, Smt. Glady’s 
Alvares Marg, Thane (West) – 400 061.
8
D-28/3, TTC Indl. Area Behind, Turbhe Telephone Exchange, 
Turbhe, Navi Mumbai - 400 705.
 41.06 
 37.13 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
9
201 B, 2nd Floor, The Orion 5, Koregaon Road, Pune – 411 001.
 708.18 
 657.07 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
10
Shop No.201, 2nd Floor, South End Cnclave, R. B. Connector, 
EKADP, Kolkata - 700 078.
 389.66 
 362.67 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
11
Vedic Village Unit No. L – F8, Shikharpur, P. S. Rajarhet North 24 
Parganas, Kolkata 700 135
 122.40 
 114.40 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
12
3rd floor, Nikhilesh Palace, Opp.Jawahar Nagar, 164/ 17-4, Ashpk 
Marg, Lucknow – 226 001
 264.46 
 246.29 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
13
Shop No. 203 & 204, 2nd Floor, The Guman _ II, “A” Block, Opp. 
Tagore Public School, Vaishali Nagar, Jaipur – 302 021
 359.00 
 333.35 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
14
Unit No. 402-408, 4th Floor, Sapphire heights, Plot No.12, Agra - 
Bombay Road, Indore – 452 010.
 118.00 
 109.81 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
15
2nd & 3rd Floor, CLOUD-9, 81/1, The Swastik Co. Op. Hsg. Soc. 
Ltd., Navrangpura, Ahmedabad- 380 009.
 320.00 
 297.10 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
201
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs 
Sr. 
No.
Description of the property
As at March 31, 2025
Held in the name 
of
Whether promoter, 
Director, or 
their relative or 
employee
Period held since
Gross 
carrying 
value
Net 
Carrying 
value 
16
Shop No. 2, 2nd Floor, Shiv Pooja Shopping Centre, City Light 
Main Road, Surat – 395 .
 323.31 
 300.85 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
17
Office NO. 102, 1st Floor, Ivory Terrace, R. C. Dutta Road, 
Alkapuri, Baroda –390 005.
 206.58 
 192.26 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
18
Ground Floor, Bharati Tower, A- Block, Forest Park, Bhubaneswar 
– 751 009.
 308.70 
 287.59 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
19
Shop No. B4 on 2nd Floor, B5, C5 &D5 on 3rd Floor, “Anmol 
Palani”, No.88, G.N. Chetty Road. T. Nagar, Chennai – 600 017
 522.18 
 484.29 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
20
Shop No. B5 on 3rd Floor, “Anmol, Palani”, No.88, G. N. Chetty 
Road.T. Nagar, Chennai – 600 017
21
Shop No. C5 & D5 on 3rd Floor, “Anmol Palani”, No.88, G. N. 
ChettyRoad. T. Nagar, Chennai – 600017
22
Unit No. 506,5th Floor, Pavani Prestige, Commercial Building 
Complex,6-3-789, Ammerpet, Hyderabad – 500 016.
 85.94 
 79.75 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
23
Unit No. 506,507 & 508, 5th Floor, Pavani Prestige, Commercial 
Building Complex, 6-3-789, Ammerpet, Hyderabad – 500 016.
 328.58 
 304.76 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
24
4th Floor, Tutus Tower, NH –47, Bye-Pass Road, Padivattom, 
Cochin -682 024. 
 286.00 
 266.30 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
25
Khasra No.3946,3961-62, Lal Tappar Industrial Area, Majri Grant, 
Dehradun-248140
 3,462.34 
 3,194.03 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
26
No. 143, C-4, Bommasandra Industrial Area, Off Hosur Road, 
Bangalore -560099
 6,108.51 
 5,782.30 Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Reason for all the above properties not being held in the name of the Company: 
The title deeds of the immovable properties are in the name of erstwhile Eureka Forbes Limited (“the EFL”). Due to the scheme of arrangement in the earlier years, 
EFL was amalgamated into Forbes & Company Limited and the said properties forming part of the Undertaking as defined in the scheme was demerged from 
Forbes & Company Limited in to Forbes Enviro Solutions Limited, which has been renamed as Eureka Forbes Limited. The Company is in the process of getting 
the title transferred in its name pursuant to the aforesaid scheme of arrangement.
Eureka Forbes Limited
202
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 4: Right of Use Assets
 ` in Lakhs 
 Gross Block
 Leasehold 
land# 
 ROU Assets 
- Buildings 
 Total 
As at 01 April 2023
 345.01 
 2,833.65 
 3,178.66 
Additions
 - 
 549.50 
 549.50 
Deletions
 - 
 (246.76)
 (246.76)
As at March 31, 2024
 345.01 
 3,136.39 
 3,481.40 
Additions
 - 
 2,456.67 
 2,456.67 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 345.01 
 5,593.06 
 5,938.07 
Depreciation
As at 01 April 2023
 6.16 
 1,093.47 
 1,099.63 
Charge for the year
 5.30 
 1,209.77 
 1,215.07 
Deletions
 - 
 (159.01)
 (159.01)
Adjustments
 - 
 (265.89)
 (265.89)
As at March 31, 2024
 11.46 
 1,878.34 
 1,889.80 
Charge for the year
 5.30 
 1,378.43 
 1,383.73 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 16.76 
 3,256.77 
 3,273.53 
Net Block
As at March 31, 2024
 333.55 
 1,258.05 
 1,591.60 
As at March 31, 2025
 328.25 
 2,336.29 
 2,664.54 
# Refer Note 41 for assets pledged as security.
Note 5: Other Intangible Assets
 ` in Lakhs 
 Gross Block
 Computer 
Software 
 Distributor 
network-Service 
 Distributor 
network-Product 
 Technical 
Knowhow 
 Brand Name 
/ Trademarks 
 Total 
As at 01 April 2023
 126.73 
 20,557.83 
 3,966.24 
 19.79 
 2,91,119.26  3,15,789.85 
Additions
 1,194.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,194.14 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 1,320.87 
 20,557.83 
 3,966.24 
 19.79 
 2,91,119.26  3,16,983.99 
Additions
 1,341.67 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,341.67 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 2,662.54 
 20,557.83 
 3,966.24 
 19.79 
 2,91,119.26  3,18,325.66 
Depreciation
As at 01 April 2023
 121.03 
 2,398.41 
 462.72 
 19.79 
 - 
 3,001.95 
Charge for the year
 74.57 
 2,055.78 
 396.62 
 - 
 - 
 2,526.97 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 195.60 
 4,454.19 
 859.34 
 19.79 
 - 
 5,528.92 
Charge for the year
 273.87 
 2,055.79 
 396.62 
 - 
 - 
 2,726.28 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 469.47 
 6,509.98 
 1,255.96 
 19.79 
 - 
 8,255.20 
Net Block
As at March 31, 2024
 1,125.27 
 16,103.64 
 3,106.90 
 - 
 2,91,119.26  3,11,455.07 
As at March 31, 2025
 2,193.07 
 14,047.85 
 2,710.28 
 - 
 2,91,119.26  3,10,070.46 
Notes:
a.  
Refer Note 33S for Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
203
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 6: Intangible Assets Under Development (IAUD)
(i) 
Intangible asset under development movement
 ` in Lakhs 
Movement of intangible assets under development
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Opening balance
 122.19 
 245.93 
Add: Additions during the year
 916.85 
 598.71 
Less: Expensed out during the year
 (29.12)
-
Less: Capitalized during the year
 (817.86)
 (722.45)
Closing balance
 192.06 
 122.19 
(ii) Intangible Asset Under Development  Schedule
 ` in Lakhs 
Amount of intangible assets under development  
for a period of
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Projects in 
progress
Projects 
temporarily 
suspended
Projects in 
progress
Projects 
temporarily 
suspended
Less than 1 year
 192.06 
 - 
 122.19 
 - 
1-2 years
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 192.06 
 - 
 122.19 
 - 
Note 7: Investments
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Non-current Investments
Unquoted Investments (all fully paid up)
Investments in Equity Instruments
5,00,000 (March 31, 2024: 5,00,000) equity shares of ` 10 fully paid up 
in Forbes Aquatech Limited
 50.00 
 50.00 
70,00,000 (March 31, 2024: 70,00,000) equity shares of ` 10 fully paid 
up in Infinite Water Solutions Private Limited
 2,474.15 
 2,474.15 
3,57,765 (March 31, 2024: 3,57,765) equity shares of AED 1000 fully 
paid up in Euro Forbes Limited (Includes 3,16,150 shares issued at 
discount)
 35,148.04 
 35,148.04 
Less: Impairment in value of investments in Euro Forbes Limited (Refer 
Note (a))
 (35,148.04)
 (35,148.04)
Total Unquoted Investments in subsidiaries at cost
 2,524.15 
 2,524.15 
Investments in Equity Instruments - Other Company 
7,143 (March 31, 2024: 7,143) equity shares of ` 10 fully paid up in 
Water Quality Association (Refer Note (b))
 0.71 
 0.71 
Total Unquoted Investments at cost
 0.71 
 0.71 
Total Non-current Investment 
 2,524.86 
 2,524.86 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments and market value thereof
 2,524.86 
 2,524.86 
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments
 35,148.04 
 35,148.04 
Notes:
a.  
 The cost of investment in Euro Forbes Limited in the books of demerged undertaking that got merged into the company w.e.f February 
01, 2022 amounted to ` 35,148.04 lakhs. This investment was fully impaired in the books of demerged undertaking (including 
` 415.78 lakhs pertaining to Equity Component in Fair Value of financial guarantees).
b.  
 The Company has invested in 7,143 shares of face value ` 10 each in a non profit making organisation hence the fair value has been 
considered same as the carrying value.
Eureka Forbes Limited
204
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current Investments
Unquoted Investments in Mutual Funds
Nippon India Liquid Fund - Growth Plan Growth Option: 55,815.86 units 
(March 31, 2024: 55,815.86 units)
 3,498.95 
 3,261.68 
Tata Liquid Fund - Regular Plan - Growth: 59,228.91 units (March 31, 
2024: 59,228.91 units)
 2,395.99 
 2,233.16 
Total Current Investment 
 5,894.94 
 5,494.84 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments and market value thereof
 5,894.94 
 5,494.84 
Note 8: Trade Receivables
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Non-current Trade Receivables
Unsecured, considered good
 - 
 - 
Unsecured, credit impaired
 361.75 
 361.75 
Less: Allowance for doubtful debts
 (361.75)
 (361.75)
Total Non-current Trade Receivables
 - 
 - 
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current Trade Receivables
Unsecured, considered good
 18,061.24 
 13,718.38 
Unsecured, debts due from related parties (refer note 34(ii))
 - 
Unsecured, credit impaired
 703.92 
 878.72 
Unsecured, credit impaired from related parties (refer note 34(ii))
 829.29 
 829.29 
Less: Allowance for doubtful debts
 (1,605.79)
 (1,708.01)
Total Current Trade Receivables
 17,988.66 
 13,718.38 
Ageing for trade receivables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2025:
 ` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Credit impaired
Disputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Disputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Credit impaired
Not due
 10,515.54 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Less than 6 months
 6,258.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
6 months - 1 year
 925.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
1-2 years
 204.86 
 162.13 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 157.01 
 591.92 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 - 
 1,140.91 
 - 
 - 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
205
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Credit impaired
Disputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Disputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Credit impaired
Total (A)
 18,061.24 
 1,894.96 
 - 
 - 
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss (B)
 (72.58)
 (1,894.96)
 - 
 - 
Total [(A) - (B)]
 17,988.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Ageing for trade receivables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2024:
 ` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Credit impaired
Disputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Disputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Credit impaired
Not due
 9,190.35 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Less than 6 months
 3,841.15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
6 months - 1 year
 504.36 
 53.34 
 - 
 - 
1-2 years
 182.52 
 1,018.77 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 0.00* 
 214.04 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 0.00* 
 783.61 
 - 
 - 
Total (A)
 13,718.38 
 2,069.76 
 - 
 - 
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss (B)
 - 
 (2,069.76)
 - 
 - 
Total [(A) - (B)]
 13,718.38 
 - 
 - 
 - 
* Amount less than ` 0.01 lakhs
Notes:
a. 
The Company’s exposure to credit risk and loss allowances related to trade receivables are disclosed in Note 40(a).
b.  
 The Company uses simplified approach for trade receivable for calculating expected credit loss. Accordingly the company does not 
track changes in credit risk of individual trade receivable.
c.  
 Refer Note 41 for receivables pledged as security against borrowings.
Note 9: Loans
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current Loans
Loans to Employees
- 
Unsecured, considered good
 5.36 
 6.38 
Total Current Loans
 5.36 
 6.38 
Eureka Forbes Limited
206
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 10: Other Financial Assets
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Other Non-current Financial Assets
Bank deposits with more than 12 months maturity 
 0.92 
 45.71 
Deposit with Banks held as Margin Money*
 863.33 
 801.63 
Security deposits - unsecured considered good
 679.58 
 373.03 
Total Other Non-current Financial Assets
 1,543.83 
 1,220.37 
Other Current Financial Assets
Security deposits - unsecured considered good
 61.19 
 90.70 
Total Other Current Financial Assets
 61.19 
 90.70 
* ` 90.64 lakhs of deposits lodged as a security with government authorities.
Note 11: Income tax assets and liabilities
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Income tax assets (Net)
Advance income-tax (net of Provision for Taxation)
 1,598.91 
 2,183.60 
Total Non-current Income tax assets
 1,598.91 
 2,183.60 
Income tax Liabilities (Net)
Provision for Taxation (net of Advance Tax)
 11,328.33 
 5,570.38 
Total Current Income tax liabilities
 11,328.33 
 5,570.38 
Note 12: Other Assets
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Other Non-current Assets
Unsecured considered good, unless stated otherwise
Capital Advances
 1,602.09 
 146.32 
Prepaid Expenses
 44.17 
 66.14 
Balance with government authorities
 1,082.06 
 1,053.39 
Total Other Non-current Assets
 2,728.32 
 1,265.85 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
207
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Other Current Assets
Unsecured considered good, unless stated otherwise
Prepaid Expenses
 1,176.37 
 1,121.13 
Right to Recover Returned Goods (Refer Note (1) below)
 112.50 
 94.95 
Balance with government authorities
 2,009.23 
 2,859.31 
Advances recoverable in cash or kind
 1,708.71 
 2,080.15 
Advances recoverable in cash or kind - considered doubtful
 3,629.36 
 3,610.01 
 8,636.17 
 9,765.55 
Less: Provision for doubtful advances
 (3,629.36)
 (3,610.01)
Total Other Current Assets
 5,006.81 
 6,155.54 
Note (1): A return right gives the company a contractual right to recover the goods from a customer (return assets), if the 
customer exercises his right to return the goods. The right to recover returned goods is accounted for the products that 
are expected to be returned.
Note 13: Inventories
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Inventories (lower of cost or net realisable value)
Raw Materials, Components and Packing Material  
(includes in transit ` 2,329.60 lakhs (March 31, 2024: ` 1,554.29 lakhs))
 6,055.02 
 5,270.71 
Finished Goods (includes in transit: ` 108.34  
(March 31, 2024: ` 513.99 Lakhs))
 2,727.09 
 5,110.44 
Stock in Trade (includes in transit ` 868.95 lakhs  
(March 31, 2024: ` 1,286.86 Lakhs))
 10,546.29 
 6,441.68 
Spares & Accessories (includes in transit: ` 50.16 lakhs  
(March 31, 2024: ` 25.89 Lakhs))
 4,985.52 
 7,545.71 
 24,313.92 
 24,368.54 
Refer Note 41 for inventories pledged as security against borrowing 
Eureka Forbes Limited
208
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 14: Cash and cash equivalents and other bank balances
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and in banks. Cash and 
cash equivalents at the end of the reporting period as shown in the cash flows statement can be reconciled to the related 
items in the balance sheet as follows:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Balances with Banks in current accounts
 5,912.20 
 5,390.06 
Cheques, drafts on hand
 4.43 
 62.15 
Cash on hand
 - 
 95.63 
Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 Months 
 1,034.43 
 3.95 
Total Cash & cash equivalents
 6,951.06 
 5,551.79 
Bank Balances other than cash & cash equivalents
Deposits with original maturity of more than 12 months 
 9,073.08 
 6.97 
Deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months but less than  
12 months 
 6,520.60 
 3,615.03 
Total Bank Balances other than cash & cash equivalents
 15,593.68 
 3,622.00 
Cash and cash equivalents as per cash flow statement
 6,951.06 
 5,551.79 
Note 15: Equity Share Capital
Particulars
Number of shares
Share capital 
` in Lakhs
Authorised Share capital:
As at April 01, 2023
 25,00,00,000 
 25,000.00 
Increase during the year 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 25,00,00,000 
 25,000.00 
Increase during the year 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 25,00,00,000 
 25,000.00 
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Issued and subscribed capital comprises:
19,34,79,240 (Previous year: 19,34,79,240) fully paid equity shares of ` 
10 each
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92 
Movement in equity share capital:
 Number of shares 
Number of shares
As at April 01, 2023
 19,34,79,240 
 19,34,79,240 
Increase during the year 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 19,34,79,240 
 19,34,79,240 
Increase during the year 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 19,34,79,240 
 19,34,79,240 
a.  
 Fully paid equity shares have a par value of ` 10 each. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share 
with a right to receive per share dividend declared by the Company. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders 
are entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company (after distribution of all preferential amounts) in the proportion 
of paid up equity shares held by the shareholders.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
209
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
b.  Details of shares held by the holding company, the ultimate holding company, their subsidiaries and associates:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Lunolux Limited, Cyprus (Holding Company)
 12,10,41,730 
 12,10,41,730 
Total as at the end of the year
 12,10,41,730 
 12,10,41,730 
c. 
Details of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Lunolux Limited, Cyprus
 12,10,41,730 
62.56%
 12,10,41,730 
62.56%
India Discovery Fund Limited
 - 
0.00%
 1,30,33,916 
6.74%
Total
 12,10,41,730 
62.56%
 13,40,75,646 
69.30%
d.  Details of shareholdings by the Promoters of the Company:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Fully paid equity shares
Lunolux Limited, Cyprus (Holding Company)
 12,10,41,730 
62.56%
 12,10,41,730 
62.56%
e.  
For the period of five years immediately preceding the date as at which the Balance Sheet is prepared:
 
i. 
 Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up pursuant to contract(s) without payment being 
received in cash:
 
 
 19,34,79,240 Equity shares of ` 10 each allotted as fully paid-up pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement approved 
by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal on January 25, 2022.
 
ii.  
Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares: Nil
 
iii.  Aggregate number and class of shares bought back: Nil
Note 16: Other equity
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Retained earnings
Balance at beginning of year
 9,959.87 
 1,038.90 
Add: Profit  for the year
 16,328.65 
 9,156.85 
Other comprehensive loss arising from re-measurement of defined 
benefit obligation, net of tax
 (343.41)
 (235.88)
Balance at end of the year
 25,945.11 
 9,959.87 
Eureka Forbes Limited
210
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Securities Premium
Balance at beginning of the year
 3,87,063.43 
 3,87,063.43 
Add: Addition during the year
 - 
 - 
Balance at end of the year
 3,87,063.43 
 3,87,063.43 
Capital reserve
Balance at beginning of the year
 482.73 
 482.73 
Add: Addition during the year
 - 
 - 
Balance at end of the year
 482.73 
 482.73 
Employee stock option scheme reserve
Balance at beginning of the year
 3,448.76 
 - 
Add: Addition during the year
 2,209.12 
 3,448.76 
Balance at end of the year
 5,657.88 
 3,448.76 
Total Other Equity
 4,19,149.15 
 4,00,954.79 
Description of nature and purpose of reserves:
Retained Earnings
This reserve represents the cumulative profits of the company and the effects of remeasurement of defined benefit 
obligations. The reserve can be utilised in accordance with the provision of the Companies Act, 2013.
Securities premium
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Capital Reserve
The Capital reserve has been created on cancellation of shares held by then existing shareholders of the company as per 
the composite scheme of arrangement approved by the national company Law tribunal on January 25, 2022.
Employee stock option scheme reserves
The share-based payments reserve is used to recognise the value of equity settled share-based payments provided 
to employees, including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer to Note 37 for further details 
of these plans.
Note 17: Borrowings
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current Borrowings
Secured – at amortised cost
Term loans
Banks - Rupee Term loan (Refer Note (a) below)
 - 
 2,491.97 
Loans repayable on demand 
Banks - Cash credit/Buyers credit (Refer Note (b) below)
 - 
 - 
Total Current Borrowings
 - 
 2,491.97 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
211
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
a.  
 Rupee Term loan (RTL) from ICICI Bank amounting to ` 10,000.00 lakhs (No Outstanding as on March 31, 2025 
(March 31, 2024: ` 2500.00 lakhs)) carries interest rate of 1 year MCLR and secured against pari pasu charge on 
tangible assets (Excluding vehicles and two wheelers purchased under Employee Benefit Scheme).
b.   Secured Short term borrowing from Axis, ICICI, Kotak and CITI bank  is secured by pari-passu charge on hypothecation 
of stock-in-trade and book debts and carries interest @ 8.65% p.a to 9.40% p.a. during FY 2024-25.
c.  
The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
Note 18: Trade payables
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 4,802.80 
 6,865.46 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises (Refer note below for dues to micro and small 
enterprises)
 13,255.64 
 12,127.30 
Trade payables to related parties (refer note 34(ii))
 684.80 
 2,933.25 
 18,743.24 
 21,926.01 
Ageing for trade payables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2025:
 ` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment
Undisputed dues 
- MSME
Undisputed dues 
- Others
 Disputed dues 
- MSME 
Disputed dues 
- Others
Not due
 4,802.80 
 4,868.04 
 - 
 - 
Less than 1 year
 - 
 8,883.51 
 - 
 - 
1-2 years
 - 
 97.28 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 - 
 61.20 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 - 
 30.41 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 4,802.80 
 13,940.44 
 - 
 - 
Ageing for trade payables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2024:
 ` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment
Undisputed dues 
- MSME
Undisputed dues 
- Others
 Disputed dues 
- MSME 
Disputed dues 
- Others
Not due
 6,864.83 
 10,330.64 
 - 
 - 
Less than 1 year
 0.63 
 4,520.05 
 - 
 - 
1-2 years
 - 
 164.47 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 - 
 22.08 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 - 
 23.31 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 6,865.46 
 15,060.55 
 - 
 - 
Disclosures required under Section 22 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 under the 
Chapter on delayed payments to Micro and Small Enterprises:
Eureka Forbes Limited
212
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
(i)   Principal amount remaining unpaid to MSME suppliers as on year end
 4,802.80 
 6,865.46 
(ii) 
 Interest 
due 
on 
unpaid 
principal 
amount 
to 
MSME 
suppliers as on year end
 - 
 - 
(iii)  The amount of interest paid along with the amounts of the payment 
made to the MSME suppliers beyond the appointed day 
 - 
 - 
(iv)  The amount of interest due and payable for the year (without adding 
the interest under MSME Development Act)
 - 
 - 
(v)  The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid as on year end
 - 
 - 
(vi)  The amount of interest due and payable to be disallowed under 
Income Tax Act, 1961
 - 
 - 
Note 19: Other Current Financial Liabilities
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at 
March 31, 2024
Interest free trade deposits
 4,909.21
 5,141.23
Others:
 
Dues to employees
 7,168.32
 6,871.95
 
 Dues on account of customer rebate schemes and other 
contractual liabilities
 7,918.00
 6,330.37
Total Other Current Financial Liabilities
 19,995.53
 18,343.55
Note 20: Lease liabilities
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Non-current Lease liabilities
 1,547.04 
 409.66 
Current Lease liabilities
 1,008.31 
 969.18 
Note 21: Provisions
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Non-current Provisions
Employee benefits - compensated absences
 95.69 
 357.17 
Total Non-current Provisions
 95.69 
 357.17 
Current Provisions
Employee benefits - compensated absences
 4.42 
 77.94 
Gratuity payable
 488.91 
 336.83 
Other provisions
 
Warranties (Refer Note 33I(B))
 1,935.75 
 1,852.09 
 
Others (Refer Note 33I(A))
 51.25 
 51.25 
Total Current Provisions
 2,480.33 
 2,318.11 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
213
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 22: Other Liabilities
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Other Non-current Liabilities
Contract Liabilities - Income received in advance (Refer Note 33J)
 14,946.67 
 12,879.35 
Deductions from employees for company's assets
 140.14 
 271.33 
Total Other Non-current Liabilities
 15,086.81 
 13,150.68 
Other Current Liabilities
Contract liabilities - Income received in advance (Refer Note 33J)
 32,857.18 
 37,707.35 
Deductions from employees for company's assets
 634.83 
 846.43 
Advance from customers
 3,301.06 
 1,900.96 
Contract liabilities - Others (Refer Note (a) below )
 182.93 
 305.42 
Refund liabilities (Refer Note (b) below)
 2,897.82 
 2,567.28 
Statutory liabilities (Contributions to PF, pension, ESIC, withholding 
taxes, VAT, GST, PT, etc.)
 1,496.53 
 1,759.87 
Total Other Current Liabilities
 41,370.35 
 45,087.31 
Notes:
a.  
Contract liability pertains to deferred revenue arising as a separate performance obligation.
b.  
 The company recognises a refund liability for the amount of consideration received when a customer has a right to return products 
within a given period. Refund liabilities also include amount recognised for various discounts and incentives payable to customers.
Note 23: Deferred tax balances (net) 
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
The following is the analysis of deferred tax (assets)/liabilities 
presented in the balance sheet: 
Deferred tax assets 
 (1,617.72)
 (1,830.50)
Deferred tax liabilities
 82,429.15 
 82,923.52 
Total Deferred tax balances (net)
 80,811.43 
 81,093.02 
Refer Note 42 for detailed components of Deferred taxes balances.
Note 24: Revenue from operations
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Sale of products
 1,81,624.21 
 1,56,813.97 
Sale of services
 60,532.81 
 61,558.96 
Other operating revenues
 
Scrap sales
 332.73 
 297.90 
 
Other
 1,116.49 
 251.80 
Total Revenue from operations
 2,43,606.24 
 2,18,922.63 
Eureka Forbes Limited
214
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 25: Other Income and other gains/ (losses)
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Other Income
Interest earned on financial assets that are not designated as at 
fair value through profit or loss:
 
Bank deposits (at amortised cost)
 623.39
 182.43
 
Interest Others
 87.68
 8.18
Rental Income from Operating Lease
 36.09
 39.68
Others
 100.54
 124.13
Total (A)
 847.70
 354.42
Other gains/(losses) - net
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 153.66
 74.05
Gain on disposal of Investments at FVTPL
 -
 47.68
Net foreign exchange gains
 8.74
 -
Net gain arising on financial assets measured at FVTPL
 400.10
 367.21
Gain on modification/disposal of Right of use assets
 -
 9.58
Total (B)
 562.50
 498.52
Total Other Income and other gains/ (losses) (A+B)
 1,410.20
 852.94
Note 26: Cost of goods sold
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Raw Materials, Components and Packing Materials
Inventory at the beginning of the year
 5,270.71 
 4,318.97 
Add: Purchases
 92,908.69 
 84,310.74 
 98,179.40 
 88,629.71 
Less: Inventory at the end of the year
 (6,055.02)
 (5,270.71)
Cost of Raw Materials, Components and Packing Materials consumed 
 92,124.38 
 83,359.00 
Purchases of stock-in-trade
 9,316.88 
 10,292.52 
Changes in inventories of finished goods,spares, stock-in-trade and 
work-in-progress 
 838.93 
 (2,291.94)
Less: Disclosed under exceptional item (Refer note 33T)
 (793.43)
 (1,268.93)
Total Changes in inventories of finished goods,spares, stock-in-
trade and work-in-progress 
 45.50 
 (3,560.87)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
215
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 27: Employee benefits expense
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Salaries and Wages
 28,876.77 
 27,665.24 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 1,383.38 
 1,356.33 
Staff Welfare Expenses 
 375.75 
 313.06 
Employee stock option scheme
 2,209.12 
 3,448.76 
Total Employee benefits expense
 32,845.02 
 32,783.39 
Note 28: Finance costs
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans
 251.18 
 756.34 
Interest on Lease Liabilities
 302.83 
 188.75 
Other borrowing costs
 8.03 
 26.68 
Total Finance costs
 562.04 
 971.77 
Note 29: Depreciation and amortisation expense
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 1,647.93 
 1,570.45 
Depreciation of right of use assets
 1,383.73 
 1,215.07 
Amortisation of intangible assets
 2,726.28 
 2,526.97 
Total Depreciation and amortisation expense
 5,757.94 
 5,312.49 
Note 30: Other expenses
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Electricity Power and fuel
 260.26
 255.21
Rent
 597.63
 509.54
Repairs and Maintenance:
 
Building
 77.59
 59.18
 
Machinery
 33.19
 27.58
 
Others
 624.60
 502.15
Insurance
 713.84
 535.13
Advertisement
 10,954.25
 8,658.52
Selling and Sales Promotion
 14,997.25
 12,018.99
Freight, Forwarding and Delivery
 6,659.19
 6,374.24
Wages to contractual workers
 1,544.22
 1,440.26
Payment to Auditors (Refer details below)
 99.73
 95.89
Eureka Forbes Limited
216
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Printing and Stationery
 79.62
 101.89
Communication cost
 580.76
 750.59
Travelling and Conveyance
 2,015.76
 1,681.41
Legal and Professional Fees
 2,095.89
 1,387.57
Vehicle Running Expenses
 104.68
 345.99
Rates and taxes, excluding taxes on income
 88.76
 203.69
Conference Expenses
 767.13
 914.70
Service Charges
 29,835.93
 30,159.15
Information Technology Expenses
 4,791.68
 5,405.70
Logistics Expenses
 2,445.37
 1,974.53
Other Establishment Expenses
 3,156.29
 2,866.23
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses (Refer Note 33K)
 120.08
 33.00
Directors' Sitting Fees
 9.60
 13.05
Bad Debts/Advances Written-Off
 -
 8.56
Provision for Doubtful Debts / Advances
 (82.87)
 123.85
Commission to Directors
 415.00
 385.00
Net foreign exchange losses
 -
 30.43
Total Other expenses
 82,985.43
 76,862.03
Payment to Auditors
As Statutory auditor
 
For Audit fee (includes Limited Review fees)
 81.00
 86.83
 
For other services
 7.00
 0.50
 
For reimbursement of expenses
 4.61
 1.56
As Cost auditor
 7.12
 7.00
 99.73
 95.89
Note 31: Income tax recognised in statement of profit and loss
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Current tax
In respect of the current year
 5,839.88 
 3,887.91 
 5,839.88 
 3,887.91 
Deferred tax
In respect of the current year
 (281.59)
 (804.42)
 (281.59)
 (804.42)
Total income tax expense recognised in the current year
 5,558.29 
 3,083.49 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
217
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
32 Earnings per share
 The calculations of profit attributable to equity shareholders and weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
for purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share calculation are as follows:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Profit for the year attributable to equity share holders
 16,328.65 
 9,156.85 
Face value per equity shares
 10 
 10 
Weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of 
basic earnings per share (Nos.)
 19,42,91,167 
 19,34,79,240 
Weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of 
diluted earnings per share (Nos.)
 19,42,92,453 
 19,40,49,754 
Basic earnings per share (`)
 8.40 
 4.73 
Diluted earnings per share (`)
 8.40 
 4.72 
The earnings and weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per 
share are as follows:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 
 16,328.65 
 9,156.85 
Weighted average number of equity shares for the purposes of basic 
earnings per share (quantity in numbers) 
 19,42,91,167 
 19,34,79,240 
Add: Share deemed to be issued in respect of employee stock option 
scheme
 1,286 
 5,70,514 
Weighted average number of equity shares for the purposes of diluted 
earnings per share (quantity in numbers) 
 19,42,92,453 
 19,40,49,754 
33  
Additional information to the financial statements
33A  
Contingent liabilities and commitments ( to the extent not provided for )
 
 
(a) Contingent liabilities:
 
 
(i) 
Disputed Income Tax demands* - ` 1,623.73 lakhs (previous year ` 1,623.73 lakhs)
 
 
(ii) 
Disputed Central Excise demands - ` 1,442.81 lakhs(previous year ` 1,442.81 lakhs)
 
 
(iii) Disputed Sales Tax demands - ` 2,660.41 lakhs (previous year ` 3,389.89 lakhs)
 
 
(iv) Disputed Service Tax demands - ` 858.03 lakhs (previous year ` 858.03 lakhs)
 
 
(v) Disputed civil suit - ` 90.84 lakhs (previous year - ` 90.84 lakhs )
 
 
(vi) Disputed claims against the company not acknowledged as debt ` 42.85 lakhs (Previous Year ` 42.85 lakhs)
 
 
(vii) Disputed Goods and Services Tax demand - ` 2,090.98 lakhs (previous year ` 1,601.02 lakhs)
 
 
(viii)  Disputed claims against the Company for certain Labour Law & related matters estimated at ` 42.50 lakhs 
(previous year ` 42.50 lakhs)
 
 
*  In calculating the tax expense for the current year, the Company has considered taxability of certain income and allowability 
of certain expenditure for tax purpose based on the orders/judgments passed in further appeals in its own assessment of 
earlier year. Based on the same, no additional provision is envisaged necessary as on March 31, 2025 in respect of earlier 
years and current year.
Eureka Forbes Limited
218
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 
(b) Commitments:
 
 
 
(i) 
 Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for - 
` 2,853.76 lakhs (previous year ` 491.73 lakhs).
 
 
 
(ii) 
Towards product performance guarantee ` 152.33 lakhs (previous year ` 269.55 lakhs)
 
 
 
(iii) Towards service performance guarantee ` 115.64 lakhs (previous year ` 65.28 lakhs)
 
 
 
 In respect of all items mentioned in (a) above, till the matter are finally decided, the timing of outflow of 
economic benefit cannot be ascertained.
33B a.)  The company has given certain office / factory premises and moulds on operating lease basis. Details of 
which are as follows:
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars 
Building
Plant and Machinery (Moulds)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Gross Amount
 481.49 
 481.49 
 35.66 
 35.66 
Accumulated Depreciation
 198.83 
 179.20 
 33.19 
 31.50 
Depreciation
 19.64 
 19.64 
 1.70 
 1.70 
 
b.)  The company has given commercial premises under cancellable operating lease. Lease rental income included 
in the statement of profit and loss for the year is ` 36.09/- Lakhs (Previous Year ` 39.68/- Lakhs) for Premises.
33C  
 The Company is primarily engaged in the business of Health, Hygiene products and its services. Information reported 
to and evaluated regularly by chief operating decision maker for the purpose of resource allocation and assessing 
performance focuses on the business as a whole. Accordingly there is no other separate segment  as  per  Indian 
Accounting Standard 108 dealing with “Operating Segment” . The geographical  segmentation is insignificant 
as the export turnover is less than 10% of the total turnover and also company’s Non Current assets (other than 
Financial Instrument, deferred tax, post employment benefits and rights arising under insurance contracts) are 
located in India.
 
 
 Revenue from transactions with a single external customer did not amount to 10% or more of the Company’s 
revenue from external customers for current and previous year.
 
 
The Company’s main revenue is from sale of water purifiers , spares and servicing.
 ` in Lakhs 
Revenue from External Customers:
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
India
 2,43,513.30 
 2,18,787.79 
Outside India
 92.94 
 134.84 
Total Revenue
 2,43,606.24 
 2,18,922.63 
33D  
 The Company did not have any material transactions with companies struck off under section 248 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 or section 560 of Companies Act, 1956 during the current year and previous year.
33E  
 The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (intermediaries) with the understanding that the intermediary shall:
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
219
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 
(a)  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entites identfied in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Company (Ultmate Beneficiaries) or
 
 
(b)  provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultmate Beneficiaries.
33F  
 The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (funding 
party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
 
 
(a)  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entites identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the funding party (ultimate beneficiaries) or
 
 
(b) provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
33G  
 `1,805.77 Lakhs (Previous year `1,600.82 lakhs) revenue expenses incurred during the year on Research and 
Development has been charged to the respective heads of accounts.
33H  
 There are no scheme of arrangements which have been approved by the Competent Authority in terms of 
sections 230 to 237 of the Companies Act, 2013 during the current year.
33I  
Disclosures required by Indian Accounting Standard 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”
 
 
A)
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2025
Year ended March 31, 2024
Excise Duty
Sales Tax 
Excise Duty
Sales Tax 
At the beginning of the year 
 49.96 
 1.29 
 49.96 
 1.29 
Add: Movement during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year 
 49.96 
 1.29 
 49.96 
 1.29 
 
 
B) 
Warranty provision
 
 
 The  company gives  warranty on certain products, towards satisfactory performance of products during the 
warranty period. Warranty provisions are made for expected future outflows where no reimbursements are 
expected and  estimated based on  using historical information on the nature frequency and average cost of 
warranty claims. The table given below gives information about movement in warranty provisions:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
At the beginning of the year 
 1,852.09 
 1,787.28 
Add: Additions during the year*
 1,935.75 
 1,852.09 
Less: Utilization during the year 
 (1,852.09)
 (1,787.28)
At the end of the year 
 1,935.75 
 1,852.09 
 
 
*Included in Service Charges under Other Expenses
Eureka Forbes Limited
220
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
33J  
 Remaining performance obligation towards rendering of maintenance contracts as at the year end is recognized 
as “Income received in advance” and presented in “Other liabilities”. This obligation pertains to maintenance 
services that would be carried out over the contract period for which company has received the advance. 
The service period ranges from 1 year to 4 year Management believes that 69% pertaining to remaining obligation 
as of the year ended 31 March 2025 will be recognised as revenue during the next financial year, 22% will be 
recognized as revenue in FY 26-27 and 9% will be recognised in FY 27-28.
 
 
Reconciliation of Revenue Recognised with  contract price:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Contract Price *
 2,41,256.32 
 2,19,198.20 
Adjustment for 
Less:
Refund Liabilities - Sales Return estimate
 250.00 
 211.52 
Performance Liabilities 
 182.93 
 305.42 
Unperformed performance obligation at the end the year
 47,803.85 
 50,586.70 
Unperformed on accquisition 
 - 
 - 
Unperformed performance obligation at the beginning of the 
year
 (50,586.70)
 (50,828.07)
Revenue from continuing operations 
 2,43,606.24 
 2,18,922.63 
 
 
* Net of Taxes
33K  
Corporate social responsibility expenditure:- 
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2025
Year ended March 31, 2024
a) 
 Gross amount required to be spent by 
the company
 120.08 
 33.00 
b) 
Amount spent during the year on:
Paid in 
cash 
Yet to be 
paid
Total
Paid in 
cash 
Yet to be 
paid
Total
 
(i) 
 Construction/acquisition of any 
asset
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
(ii) 
Purposes other than (i) above
 120.08 
 - 
 120.08 
 33.00 
 - 
 33.00 
33L  
 The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year or 
previous financial year.
33M  
 The Company does not have any benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against 
the Company for holding any benami property.
33N  
 The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the Companies 
Act read with Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
33O  
 The Company does not have any investment property during any reporting period, the disclosure related to fair 
value of investment property is not applicable.
33P  
The Company is not covered under Section 8 of the Companies Act, thus related disclosure is not applicable.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
221
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
33Q  
 The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post-employment 
benefits received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. 
However, the date on which the Code will come in to effect has not been notified. The Company will assess the 
impact of the Code when it comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period when the Code 
becomes effective.
33R  
 The Company does not have any transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been 
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 
(such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
33S  
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life:
 
 
 The Group has identified its business of Health, Hygiene products and its Services as a single Cash 
Generating Unit (CGU).
 
 
 The recoverable amount of the CGU has been calculated based on its value in use, estimated as the present 
value of projected future cash flows.
 
 
 The values assigned to the key assumptions represent management’s assessment of future trends in the relevant 
industries and have been based on historical data from both external and internal sources. Market related 
information and estimates are used to determine the recoverable amount.
 
 
 Key assumptions on which management has based its determination of recoverable amount include estimated 
long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimated operating margins. Cash flow projections 
take into account past experience and represent management’s best estimate about future developments.
 
 
The key assumptions used in the estimation of the recoverable amount are set out below:
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
March 31, 2025
Discount rate
12.50%
Terminal value growth rate
5.50%
 
 
The discount rate was derived basis the weighted-average cost of capital of debt and equity.
 
 
 The cash flow projections included specific estimates for five years and a terminal growth rate thereafter. 
The terminal growth rate was determined based on management’s estimate of the longterm EBITDA growth rate, 
consistent with the assumptions that a market participant would make. Budgeted EBITDA was estimated taking 
into account past experience, adjusted for future expectations.
 
 
 The company has performed a sensitivity analysis and has concluded that there are no reasonably possible 
changes to key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of a CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
33T  
Exceptional items for the year ended March 31, 2025 amounting to ` 507.69 lakhs pertains to the following:
 
 
(a)  For the year ended March 31, 2024 a fire incident at Delhi warehouse location resulted in damages to 
inventory including raw materials, components, and finished goods. An insurance claim had been filed in 
due course to cover the losses sustained from this incident amounting to `1,514.90 lakhs (including GST). 
As of September 30, 2024 the company had received on account an initial amount of `300 lakhs against 
the claim in the second quarter of the financial year. Further, the company has received a full and final claim 
settlement amount of `1,001.12 lakhs in the fourth quarter of the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
 
 
 
 An amount of `793.43 lakhs for the quarter ended March 31, 2025 which is charged to Statement of Profit & 
Loss, on account of phasing out of certain product category and models including its components, due to 
change in economic conditions and technological obsolescence.
Eureka Forbes Limited
222
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 
(b) Exceptional items for the year ended March 31, 2024 amounting to ` 1,514.90 lakhs pertains to the following:
 
 
 
 An amount of ` 1,514.90 lakhs (including GST) for the quarter and year ended March 31, 2024 which is 
charged to Statement of Profit & Loss, on account of a fire at its Delhi warehouse location, resulting in 
damage to inventory, including raw materials, components, and finished goods. An insurance claim has 
been filed to cover the losses sustained from this incident.
33U  
Share-based payments
 
 
 Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires determination of the most appropriate valuation 
model, which depends on the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also requires determination of the 
most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of the share option or appreciation 
right, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions about them. For the measurement of the fair value 
of equity-settled transactions with employees at the grant date, the Company uses a Black Scholes model and 
Monte-Carlo simulation model basis the type of option granted. The assumptions and models used for estimating 
fair value for share-based payment transactions are disclosed in Note 37.
33V  
 Figures for the previous year are re-arranged/regrouped, wherever necessary, to correspond with the current 
year disclosure.
33W  
 The Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 were approved for issue by Company’s Board of 
Directors on May 16, 2025.
34 Additional information to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2025
 
(I) 
Related Party Disclosures as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
Particulars  
 Country 
A
Holding Company 
1 
Lunolux Limited (Ultimately controlled and 100% owned by funds managed by Advent 
International Corporation ("AIC")) 
 Cyprus 
B
Subsidiaries
1
Forbes Aquatech Limited 
 India 
2
Infinite Water Solutions Private Limited 
 India 
3
Forbes Lux FZE - Dubai 
 Dubai 
4
Euro Forbes Limited - Dubai 
 Dubai 
C
Name of Post employment benefit plans with whom transactions were carried out 
during the year:
1
 Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Provident Fund  
 India 
2
 Eureka Forbes Limited Managing Staff Superannuation Scheme  
 India 
3
 Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Gratuity Fund  
 India 
D
 Key Managerial Personnel 
1
Mr. Arvind Uppal - Chairman & Non executive director
2
Mr. Pratik R Pota- Managing director & CEO
3
Mr. Homi Katgara  - Non executive Independent director
4
Mr. Vinod Rao - Non executive Independent director
5
Mrs. Gurveen Singh - Non executive Independent director
6
Mr. Shashank Samant - Non executive Independent director
7
Mr. Sahil Dalal - Non executive director
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
223
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
(II)  Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2025 
 ` in Lakhs 
Nature of  
Transaction  
 Forbes 
Aquatech 
Limited 
 Infinite 
Water 
Solutions 
Private 
Limited 
 Forbes 
Lux FZE 
 Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited 
Employees 
Provident 
Fund 
 Eureka 
Forbes Limited 
Managing Staff 
Superannuation 
Scheme 
 Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited 
Employees 
Gratuity 
Fund 
Purchases 
Goods and Materials 
 416.06 
 3,664.89 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Job work charges 
 153.28 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 569.34 
 3,664.89 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Sales /(Sales Return) 
Goods and Materials 
 20.67 
 15.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20.67 
 15.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Expenses 
Contributions (Employer's) 
to Post Retirement Funds 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,617.31 
 103.86 
 560.41 
Income 
Rent and other services 
 0.18 
 35.91 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 35.91 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other Receipts 
Other Reimbursements 
 - 
 32.79 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32.79 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding 
Trade Payables 
 103.14 
 572.75 
 8.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade Receivables 
 - 
 - 
 829.29 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Less: Allowance for 
doubtful debts
 - 
 -  (829.29)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other payables to the Trust 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 109.82 
 8.96 
 488.39 
Other Deposits Payable 
 0.10 
 7.48 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total Outstanding 
 103.24 
 580.24 
 8.90 
 109.82 
 8.96 
 488.39 
 
 
All transaction with these related parties are priced on an arm’s length basis. 
(III) Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2025
 
Parties in D : Key Managerial Personnel Remuneration
 
Managing Director  & CEO
Particulars
Pratik R Pota
Short-term employee benefits
775.12
Post-employment benefits *
28.52
Share -based payments #
 - 
Total 
 803.64 
 
*  The above amounts do not include expenses for gratuity and leave encashment since actuarial valuation is carried out at 
an overall level.
 
#  The company has recognised an expense provision of ` 1,578.73 Lakhs. (previous year ` 2,142.36 Lakhs) towards employee 
stock options granted to key managerial personnel. The said amount represent fair value of option granted. The same has not 
been considered as managerial remuneration for the current year as defined under section 2(7B) of the Companies Act,2013 as 
the options have not been vested.
Eureka Forbes Limited
224
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 Aggregate remuneration paid/payable to managing director & CEO does not exceed the limit prescribed under 
section 197 of companies act, 2013
 
Directors Sitting Fees and Commission 
 ` in Lakhs
Name 
Amount
Outstanding Amount 
as at March 31, 2025
Mr. Homi Katgara
 27.90 
 27.00 
Mr. Arvind Uppal
 29.15 
 27.00 
Mr. Vinod Rao
 29.60 
 27.00 
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
 29.60 
 27.00 
Mr. Shashank Samant
 28.35 
 27.00 
Total
 144.60 
 135.00 
Aggregate remuneration paid/payable to non-whole time directors does not exceeds the limit prescribed under 
section 197 of companies act, 2013.
 
Additional information to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024
 
(I) 
Related Party Disclosures as at and for the year ended 31 March 2024
Particulars  
 Country 
A
Holding Company 
1 
Lunolux Limited (Ultimately controlled and 100% owned by funds managed by Advent 
International Corporation ("AIC")) 
 Cyprus 
B
Subsidiaries
1
Forbes Aquatech Limited 
 India 
2
Infinite Water Solutions Private Limited 
 India 
3
Forbes Lux FZE - Dubai 
 Dubai 
4
Euro Forbes Limited - Dubai 
 Dubai 
C
Name of Post employment benefit plans with whom transactions were carried out 
during the year:
1
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Provident Fund  
 India 
2
Eureka Forbes Limited Managing Staff Superannuation Scheme  
 India 
3
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Gratuity Fund  
 India 
D
Key Managerial Personnel 
1
Mr. Arvind Uppal - Chairman & Non executive director
2
Mr. Pratik R Pota- Managing director & CEO
3
Mr. Homi Katgara  - Non executive Independent director
4
Mr. Vinod Rao - Non executive Independent director
5
Mrs. Gurveen Singh - Non executive Independent director
6
Mr. Shashank Samant - Non executive Independent director
7
Mr. Sahil Dalal - Non executive director
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
225
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
(II)  Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2024 
 ` in Lakhs 
Nature of  
Transaction  
 Forbes 
Aquatech 
Limited 
 Infinite 
Water 
Solutions 
Private 
Limited 
 Forbes 
Lux FZE 
 Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited 
Employees 
Provident 
Fund 
 Eureka 
Forbes Limited 
Managing Staff 
Superannuation 
Scheme 
 Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited 
Employees 
Gratuity 
Fund 
Purchases 
Goods and Materials 
 409.24 
 5,435.47 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Job work charges 
 131.17 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 540.41 
 5,435.47 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Sales /(Sales Return) 
Goods and Materials 
 42.57 
 210.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 42.57 
 210.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Expenses 
Contributions (Employer's) 
to Post Retirement Funds 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,564.08 
 187.43 
 714.11 
Income 
Rent and other services 
 0.18 
 39.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 39.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other Receipts 
Other Reimbursements 
 - 
 46.62 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 46.62 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding 
Trade Payables 
 206.25 
 2,718.10 
 8.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade Receivables 
 - 
 - 
 829.29 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Less: Allowance for 
doubtful debts
 - 
 -  (829.29)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other payables to the Trust 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 98.41 
 13.02 
 347.59 
Other Deposits Payable 
 0.10 
 7.48 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total Outstanding 
 206.35 
 2,725.58 
 8.90 
 98.41 
 13.02 
 347.59 
 
 
All transaction with these related parties are priced on an arm’s length basis. 
 
(III) Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2024
 
 
Parties in D : Key Managerial Personnel Remuneration
 
 
Managing Director  & CEO
Particulars
Pratik R Pota
Short-term employee benefits
 647.38 
Post-employment benefits *
 22.92 
Share -based payments #
 - 
Total 
 670.30 
 
 
*  The above amounts do not include expenses for gratuity and leave encashment since acturial valuation is carried out at 
an overall level.
 
 
#  The company has recognised an expense provision of ` 2,142.36 Lakhs. (previous year Nil) towards employee stock options 
granted to key managerial personnel. The said amount represent fair value of option granted. The same has not been 
considered as managerial remuneration for the current year as defined under section 2(7B) of the Companies Act,2013 as 
the options have not been vested.
 
 
 Aggregate remuneration paid/payable to managing director & CEO does not exceed the limit prescribed under 
section 197 of companies act, 2013.
Eureka Forbes Limited
226
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
Directors Sitting Fees and Commission 
 ` in Lakhs
Name 
Amount
Outstanding Amount 
as at March 31, 2024
Mr. Homi Katgara
 29.55 
 27.40 
Mr. Arvind Uppal
 29.55 
 27.40 
Mr. Vinod Rao
 29.90 
 27.40 
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
 29.50 
 27.40 
Mr. Shashank Samant
 29.55 
 27.40 
Total
 148.05 
 137.00 
Aggregate remuneration paid/payable to non-whole time directors does not exceeds the limit prescribed under 
section 197 of companies act, 2013.
35 Leases: 
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current lease liabilities
1,008.31
969.18
Non-current lease liabilities
1,547.04
409.66
Total
2,555.35
1,378.84
The following is the movement in lease liabilities during the year ended March 31, 2025:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,378.84 
 1,847.51 
Additions
 2,456.65 
 549.50 
Finance cost accrued during the year
 302.83 
 188.75 
Deletions
 - 
 (87.75)
(Gain)/Loss on Modification/Disposal of  Right of use assets 
 - 
 (9.58)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (1,582.97)
 (1,375.48)
Adjustment
 - 
 265.89 
Balance at the end of the year
 2,555.35 
 1,378.84 
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of lease liabilities as at March 31, 2025 on an 
undiscounted basis:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Less than one year
 1,220.55 
 969.18 
One to five years
 1,728.87 
 603.38 
More than five years
 9.58 
 10.46 
Total
 2,959.00 
 1,583.02 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
227
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 Rental expense recorded for short-term leases was ` 597.63 Lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2025. (Previous Year: 
` 509.54 Lakhs)
 
 Ind AS 116 requires lessees to determine the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease adjusted with 
any option to extend or terminate the lease, if the use of such option is reasonably certain. The Company makes an 
assessment on the expected lease term on a lease-by-lease basis and thereby assesses whether it is reasonably 
certain that any options to extend or terminate the contract will be exercised. In evaluating the lease term, the 
Company considers factors such as any significant leasehold improvements undertaken over the lease term, costs 
relating to the termination of the lease and the importance of the underlying asset to the company’s operations taking 
into account the location of the underlying asset and the availability of suitable alternatives. The lease term in future 
periods is reassessed to ensure that the lease term reflects the current economic circumstances. After considering 
current and future economic conditions, the company has concluded that no changes are required to lease period 
relating to the existing lease contracts.
 
Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Depreciation expense on right-of-use assets
 1,383.73 
 1,215.07 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 302.83 
 188.75 
Expense relating to short-term leases
 597.63 
 509.54 
36 Employee benefit plans
(a)  Provident Fund
 
 The details of Eureka Forbes Limited Employees’ Provident Fund and planned assets position as at March 31, 
2025 is given below
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Valuation as at
 March 31, 2025 
 March 31, 2024 
Present value of benefit obligation at year end 
 16,821.66 
 15,950.48 
Planned Assets at the year end
 20,319.32 
 18,877.41 
Discounting Rate 
6.79%
7.22%
Expected Guaranteed interest rate
8.25%
8.25%
Average Expected Future Service
12 years
16 years
(b)  Gratuity Fund
 
 The principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuations were as follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Valuation as at
 March 31, 2025 
 March 31, 2024 
Discount rate(s)
6.79%
7.22%
Expected rate(s) of salary increase
5.00%
5.00%
Mortality rates
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality 2012-14 
(Urban)
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality 2012-14 
(Urban)
Eureka Forbes Limited
228
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss/ other comprehensive income in respect of these defined benefit 
plans are as follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Service cost:
 Current service cost
 217.25 
 176.18 
Net interest expense
 25.10 
 39.80 
Components of defined benefit costs recognised in profit or 
loss
 242.35 
 215.98 
Remeasurement on the net defined benefit liability:
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest 
expense)
 23.44 
 (33.58)
Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in financial  
assumptions
 73.88 
 107.56 
Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from experience adjustments
 361.55 
 241.06 
Components of defined benefit costs recognised in other 
comprehensive income
 458.87 
 315.04 
Total
 701.22 
 531.02 
 
 The current service cost and the net interest expense for the year are included in the ‘Employee benefits expense’ line 
item in the statement of profit and loss.
 
The remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability is included in other comprehensive income.
 
 The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the entity’s obligation in respect of its defined benefit 
plans is as follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 March 31, 2025 
 March 31, 2024 
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation
 (2,219.52)
 (1,993.97)
Fair value of plan assets 
 1,741.88 
 1,657.14 
Funded status
 (477.64)
 (336.83)
Restrictions on asset recognised 
 - 
 - 
Others
 - 
 - 
Net liability arising from defined benefit obligation
 (477.64)
 (336.83)
 
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 March 31, 2025 
 March 31, 2024 
Opening defined benefit obligation
 1,993.97 
 2,144.19 
Current service cost
 217.25 
 176.18 
Interest cost
 143.23 
 160.05 
Remeasurement (gains)/losses:
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial 
assumptions
 73.88 
 107.56 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments
 361.55 
 241.06 
Benefits paid
 (570.36)
 (835.07)
Closing defined benefit obligation
 2,219.52 
 1,993.97 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
229
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
Movements in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Opening fair value of plan assets 
 1,657.14 
 1,624.27 
Interest income 
 118.13 
 120.25 
Remeasurement gain (loss):
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest 
expense)
 (23.44)
 33.58 
Contributions from the employer
 560.41 
 714.11 
Benefits paid
 (570.36)
 (835.07)
Closing fair value of plan assets
 1,741.88 
 1,657.14 
The fair value of the plan assets at the end of the reporting period for each category, are as follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Fair Value of plan asset as at
 March 31, 2025 
 March 31, 2024 
Government Of Indian Assets 
 300.62 
 296.82 
State Government Securities 
 353.69 
 317.64 
Special Deposit Scheme
 41.03 
 41.03 
Debt Instrument 
 589.45 
 712.35 
Corporate Bond
 199.44 
 104.05 
Cash and cash equivalents
 142.06 
 87.13 
Others
 20.95 
 20.97 
Mutual Funds
 94.64 
 77.15 
Total 
 1,741.88 
 1,657.14 
 
Maturity Analysis of the Benefits Payments from the Fund 
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 March 31, 2025 
 March 31, 2024 
Projected Benefits payable in future years from the date of 
reporting
1st Following Year
 231.73 
 187.39 
2nd Following Year
 104.44 
 141.56 
3rd Following Year
 193.26 
 183.65 
4th Following Year
 187.69 
 256.11 
5th Following Year
 178.76 
 195.44 
Sum of years 6 to 10
 926.71 
 763.88 
Sum of years 11 and above 
 2,542.68 
 2,121.07 
Eureka Forbes Limited
230
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
Sensitivity Analysis
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Presented benefit obligation on current assumptions
 2,219.52 
 1,993.97 
Discount rate (1% increase)
 (165.18)
 (133.63)
Discount rate (1% decrease)
 190.59 
 152.92 
Future salary growth (1% increase)
 192.12 
 154.80 
Future salary growth (1% decrease)
 (169.30)
 (137.49)
Attrition movement (1% increase)
 20.05 
 22.23 
Attrition movement (1% decrease)
 (23.38)
 (25.24)
 
 The sensitivity analysis have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
 
 The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit 
obligation as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the 
assumptions may be correlated.
 
 Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been 
calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same method as 
applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation as recognised in the balance sheet.
 
There was no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis from prior year.
37 Employee share option scheme expenses
A 
Employees Stock Option Plan (ESOP 2022)
 
 The Company instituted an Employee Stock Option Scheme 2022 (“ESOP”) for certain employees which provides for 
a grant of 1,75,21,597 options (each option convertible into shares) to employees. The Company has made grant of 
total 1,65,75,499 options as below:
 ` in Lakhs 
Grant date
No of Options
29-05-23
1,35,95,130
21-06-23
13,54,685
09-11-23
4,54,994
21-03-24
2,74,453
28-05-24
2,54,295
07-11-24
1,77,405
10-02-25
4,64,537
Total
1,65,75,499
Scheme Details
 
The Company has granted two categories of ESOP. The detail of options granted under the plan are as under:
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
231
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
Terms of Category 1 (Service based) options
 
9,79,972 tenure based options to vest as under:
Type 1
Type 2
Vesting period
On completion of  
1 year period*
55% on completion of  1 year period* 
and 45% on completion on 2nd Year
Grant date
29-May-23
29-May-23
Exercise price
210.00
400.93
No. of Options
9,67,396
12,576
Exercise period 
Maximum period of 4 years from the date of Vesting. 
Method of settlement (cash/equity)
Equity shares
 
* Type 1 Service based options and 55% of Type 2 options have vested during the year
 
 The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using Black Scholes Option Pricing (“BSOP”) method, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted.
 
Terms of Category 2 ( Performance based) options
 
1,55,95,527 tenure and performance based options to vest only upon the following conditions being met
 
1 
 If 6 months Volume weighted average price of the share (VWAP) > 2.5x/ 3x/ 4.5x USD Multiple of Money (MoM) 
then employee will get variable number of ESOP depending on various range of MoM. (Range- minimum 2.5X 
MoM till more than 5X MoM)
 
2 
 If investor sales the stake and Internal Rate of Return (IRR)/ MoM /VWAP achieved, employee will get variable 
number of ESOP which will vest in proportion to stake sale and range of MoM/ IRR.
Grant 
date
29-May-23 29-May-23
21-Jun-23
21-Jun-23
09-Nov-23
21-Mar-24 28-May-24
07-Nov-24
10-Feb-25
Exercise 
price
210
400.93
210
586.09
505.06
446.8
436.9
591.9
549
No. of 
Options
Minimum- 
4281697; 
Maximum- 
9927421
Minimum- 
379726; 
Maximum- 
2687737
Minimum- 
779000; 
Maximum- 
804719
Minimum- 
469813; 
Maximum- 
549966
Minimum- 
384413 
Maximum- 
454994
Minimum- 
244254 
Maximum- 
274453
Minimum- 
224086 
Maximum- 
254295
Minimum- 
168358 
Maximum- 
177405
Minimum- 
372552 
Maximum- 
464537
Vesting 
Period
Maximum period of vesting is 7 years from the date of Grant 
Exercise 
period 
Maximum period of 4 years from the date of Vesting. 
Method of 
settlement 
(cash/
equity)
Equity shares
Eureka Forbes Limited
232
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using Monte Carlo Simulation Pricing (“MCS”) method 
so as to evaluate whether the performance conditions have been achieved.
 
The details of the activity has been summarised below*:
Description
March 31, 2025
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 1,52,96,481 
Exercisable at the beginning of the year
 - 
Granted during the year 
 8,96,237 
Forfeited during the year
 (14,39,786)
Exercised during the year
 - 
Vested during the year
 (9,74,313)
Expired during the period
 - 
Transferred during the period
 - 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 1,37,78,619 
Exercisable at the end of the year
 9,74,313 
Weighted average remaining contractual life (in years)
 3.14 years 
 
*Considering variable number of options, the maximum number of options are considered for the purpose of disclosure.
 
Valuation of ESOP Scheme
 
 The Black Scholes valuation  model has been used for computing the weighted average fair value for Category 1 
stock options considering the following inputs:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
Grant date
29-May-23
Weighted average share price/ market price per share (` per share)
401.10
Exercise price (` per share)
210-400.9
Dividend yield
1.80%
Expected Life of options granted (vesting and exercise price in years)
1- 2 years
Average risk free interest rate
 6.7% - 6.8% 
Expected Volatility
 25.2% - 27.6% 
Fair value of option per equity share
 49.1 - 197.90 
 
 The Monte Carlo Simulation Pricing (“MCS”) method has been used for computing the fair value for Category 
2 stock options considering the following inputs:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
Grant date
29-May-23
21-Jun-23
09-Nov-23
21-Mar-24
28-May-24
07-Nov-24
10-Feb-25
Weighted average share 
price/ market price per 
share (` per share)
401.10
587.40
500.30
449.50
430.00
634.70
554.10
Exercise price (` per share)
210-400.9
 210-586 
505.10
446.80
436.90
591.90
549.00
Dividend yield
1.80%
1.80%
2.00%
2.00%
1.50%
1.00%
1.25%
Expected Life of options 
granted (in years)
 4.9 - 7 
4.85
4.46
4.10
3.92
3.47
3.21
Average risk free interest 
rate
6.70%
6.70%
 6.9% - 7.3%  6.8% - 7.1% 
6.90%
 6.4% - 6.8% 
 6.4% - 6.8% 
Expected Volatility
25.00%
25.00%
25.00%
25.00%
30.00%
38.9%, 36.1%
42.4%, 39.6%
Fair value of option per 
equity share
 43.07-661.47  656.37- 919.63 
714.13
769.17
795.54
867.47
955.29
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
233
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
B 
Effect of employee stock option plan on the Statement of Profit and Loss and on its financial position:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Total employee compensation cost pertaining to stock option plan
 2,209.12 
 3,448.76 
Employee Stock option plan (ESOP) reserve
 5,657.88 
 3,448.76 
38 Financial instruments
 
Capital management
 
The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to:
 
-  
 safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern, so that they can continue to provide returns for shareholders 
and benefits for other stakeholders, and
 
-  
 Maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
 
 In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may return capital to shareholders, issue new shares 
or sell assets to reduce debt.
 
 Consistent with the industry, the Company, primarily, uses the gearing ratio to monitor and maintain the capital structure 
which is as follows:
 
Net debt (total borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents) divided by ‘total equity’ (as shown in the balance sheet).
 
The gearing ratios were as follows:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Borrowings
 - 
 2,491.97 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
 6,951.06 
 5,551.79 
Net debt
 (6,951.06)
 (3,059.82)
Total equity
 4,38,497.07 
 4,20,302.71 
Net debt to equity ratio
(1.59%)
(0.73%)
39 Financial instruments – Fair values
 
Accounting classification and fair values
 ` in Lakhs
 As at March 31, 2025 
 As at March 31, 2024 
FVTPL*
FVTOCI**
Amortised 
Cost
FVTPL*
FVTOCI**
Amortised 
Cost
Financial assets 
Cash and Bank Balances
 - 
 - 
 22,544.74 
 - 
 - 
 9,173.79 
Short-term loans and 
advances
 - 
 - 
 5.36 
 - 
 - 
 6.38 
Trade and other receivables
 - 
 - 
 17,988.66 
 - 
 - 
 13,718.38 
Current Investments
 5,894.94 
 - 
 - 
 5,494.84 
 - 
 - 
Non Current Investments #
 - 
 0.71 
 2,524.15 
 - 
 0.71 
 2,524.15 
Other Current financial Asset 
 - 
 - 
 61.19 
 - 
 - 
 90.70 
Other Non Current financial 
Asset
 - 
 - 
 1,543.83 
 - 
 - 
 1,220.37 
Total Financial Asset 
 5,894.94 
 0.71 
 44,667.93 
 5,494.84 
 0.71 
 26,733.77 
Eureka Forbes Limited
234
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
 As at March 31, 2025 
 As at March 31, 2024 
FVTPL*
FVTOCI**
Amortised 
Cost
FVTPL*
FVTOCI**
Amortised 
Cost
Financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables
 - 
 - 
 18,743.24 
 - 
 - 
 21,926.01 
Other Current financial 
liabilities
 - 
 - 
 21,003.84 
 - 
 - 
 19,312.73 
Other Non Current financial 
liabilities
 - 
 - 
 1,547.04 
 - 
 - 
 409.66 
Current Borrowings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,491.97 
Non Current Borrowings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total Financial Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 41,294.12 
 - 
 - 
 44,140.37 
 
*Mandatorily measured at fair value in accordance with Ind AS 109
 
** Investments in equity instruments designated as such upon initial recognition in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of Ind AS 109.
 
 These investments  in equity instruments are  not held for trading. Instead, they are held for medium or long term 
strategic purpose. Upon the application of IND AS 109, the company has chosen to designate these investments in 
equity instruments at FVTOCI as it is believed that this provides a more meaningful presentation for medium or long 
term strategic investment than reflecting changes in fair value immediately in profit and loss Account.
 
# Includes investment in equity instruments of  ` 2,524.15/- Lakhs (previous year ` 2,524.15/- lakhs) carried at cost less impairment.
 
Fair value Hierarchy
 
 This section explains the judgement and the estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments 
that are recognised and measured at fair value
` in Lakhs
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
- recurring fair value measurements at 31 March 2025 
(Refer note Below)
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets 
Financial investment at FVTPL
Unquoted Investments in Mutual funds
 5,894.94 
 - 
 - 
 5,894.94 
Financial investment at FVTOCI 
Unquoted Investments
 - 
 - 
 0.71 
 0.71 
Total Financial Asset 
 5,894.94 
 - 
 0.71 
 5,895.65 
Financial Liabilities
Total Financial Liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
` in Lakhs
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
- recurring fair  value measurements At March 2024 
(Refer note Below)
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets 
Financial investment at FVTPL
Unquoted Investments in Mutual funds
 5,494.84 
 - 
 - 
 5,494.84 
Financial investment at FVTOCI 
 - 
Unquoted Investments 
 - 
 - 
 0.71 
 0.71 
Total Financial Asset 
 5,494.84 
 - 
 0.71 
 5,495.55 
Financial Liabilities
Total Financial Liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
235
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
Reconciliation of level 3 fair value measurement of financial Instruments
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Opening Value of Fair Value 
 0.71 
 0.71 
Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in statement of profit or Loss 
 - 
 - 
Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in Other Comprehensive income 
 - 
 - 
Purchases made during the year 
 - 
 - 
Sales made during the year 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance of fair value 
 0.71 
 0.71 
 
Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuations for level 3 items
Significant unobservable Inputs 
Relationship of unobservable Inputs to fair value 
Long term revenue growth rates taking into accounts 
managements experience and knowledge of market 
conditions of the specific industries 
A slight increase in the long term revenue growth rates 
used in isolation would result in increase in fair value 
Long term pre tax operating margin taking into account 
managements experience and knowledge if market 
conditions of the specific industries 
A significant increase in the long term pre tax operating 
margin used in isolation would result in increase in fair 
value 
Weighted average cost of capital (WACC), determined 
using a Capital Asset pricing Model 
A slight increase in the WACC used in isolation would 
result in decrease in Fair value 
 
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
 
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
 
n  
the use of quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments.
 
n  
 All of the resulting fair value estimates are included in level 1 except for unlisted equity securities where the 
fair values have been determined based on present values and the discount rates used were adjusted for 
counterparty or own credit risk.
 
n  
 The carrying amount of Trade receivables, Trade payables, cash and Cash Equivalents are considered to be the 
same as their Fair Values, due to their short term in nature.
 
n  
 The Fair value of financial Instrument that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation 
technique. The company uses its Judgement to select a variety of methods and make assumptions that are 
mainly based on market conditions existing at the end of each reporting period.
40 Financial instruments – Financial risk management
 
 The Company’s activities expose it to market risk , liquidity risk and credit risk. In order to minimise any adverse effects 
on the financial performance of the Company , such as foreign exchange forward contracts are entered to hedge 
certain foreign currency risk exposure .
 
 This note explains the sources of risk which the entity is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk in the 
financial statements.
Risk
Exposure Arising from
Measurement
Management
Credit Risk
Cash and Cash Equivalents, trade 
receivables, financial assets measured at 
amortised cost and fair value through profit 
and loss.
Aging analysis, 
Credit Rating
Diversification of bank 
deposits, credit limits and 
letter of credit
Eureka Forbes Limited
236
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Risk
Exposure Arising from
Measurement
Management
Liquidity Risk
Borrowing and other liabilities
Rolling cash flow 
Forecast
Availability of committed credit 
lines and borrowing facilities
Market 
Risk- Foreign 
currency
Future commercial Transactions Recognised 
financial assets and liabilities not 
denominated in Indian rupee (`)
Cash flow 
Forecasting 
Sensitivity analysis
Forward foreign currency 
Contracts Foreign currency 
option
Market Risk- 
Interest rate
Long-term borrowings at variable rate
Sensitivity analysis
Interest rate Swaps
 
 The Company’s risk management is carried out by the Treasury team under policies approved by the  Finance 
committee. Treasury team identifies and evaluates financial risks.
(a) Credit risk
 
 Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, investments and deposits with banks, as well as credit exposures 
to customers including outstanding receivables.
 
 The carrying amounts of financial assets represent the maximum credit risk exposure. The maximum exposure to 
credit risk at the reporting date was:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Investments
 5,894.94 
 5,494.84 
Trade receivables
 17,988.66 
 13,718.38 
Cash and cash equivalents
 6,951.06 
 5,551.79 
Other bank balances 
 15,593.68 
 3,622.00 
Loans
 5.36 
 6.38 
Other financial assets
 1,605.02 
 1,311.07 
 
Trade Receivables
 
 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables by geographic region was as follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
India
 17,944.90 
 13,684.80 
Other regions
 43.76 
 33.58 
Total
 17,988.66 
 13,718.38 
 
Impairment
 
The ageing of trade and other receivables that were not impaired was as follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
0-1 Year 
 17,699.37 
 13,535.86 
1-2 Year 
 204.86 
 182.52 
2-3 Year 
 157.01 
 0.00* 
More Than 3 Yrs 
 - 
 0.00* 
Total
 18,061.24 
 13,718.38 
 
* Amount less than ` 0.01 lakhs
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
237
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade and other receivables during the year was as follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Opening Balance
 2,069.76 
 1,945.91 
Amounts written off/ (written back) during the year
 - 
 - 
Impairment loss recognised
 (102.22)
 123.85 
Balance
 1,967.54 
 2,069.76 
 
 The Company held cash and cash equivalents of ` 6,951.06 lakhs at March 31, 2025 (March 31, 2024: ` 5,551.79 
lakhs). The cash and cash equivalents are held with bank ` 6,946.63 lakhs at March 31, 2025 (March 31, 2024: ` 
5,394.01 Lakhs)
(b) Liquidity risk
 
 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial 
liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Company’s approach to managing liquidity 
is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they are due, under both 
normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Company’s reputation.
 
Exposure to liquidity risk
 
 The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The amounts are 
gross and undiscounted:
 ` in Lakhs
Non-derivative financial 
liabilities
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities 
Carrying 
amount
On 
Demand 
0- 1 year
1-5 years
> 5 years
Total
As at March 31, 2025
Banks - Long term loans
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Loans from banks
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade payables
 18,743.24 
 - 
 18,554.34 
 188.90 
 - 
 18,743.24 
Lease Liabilities 
 2,959.00 
 - 
 1,220.55 
 1,728.87 
 9.58 
 2,959.00 
Other Payable
 19,995.53 
 - 
 19,995.53 
 - 
 - 
 19,995.53 
As at March 31, 2024
Banks - Long term loans
 2,491.97 
 - 
 2,491.97 
 - 
 - 
 2,491.97 
Loans from banks
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade payables
 21,926.01 
 - 
 21,926.01 
 - 
 - 
 21,926.01 
Lease Liabilities 
 1,583.02 
 - 
 969.18 
 603.38 
 10.46 
 1,583.02 
Other Payable
 18,343.55 
 - 
 18,343.55 
 - 
 - 
 18,343.55 
Eureka Forbes Limited
238
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
(c) (i)  
Market Risk- Foreign currency
 
 
Exposure to currency risk
 
 
The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024:
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2025
USD in Lakhs
EUR in Lakhs
SGD in Lakhs
JPY in Lakhs
Financial assets 
Other Non-current financial 
assets
 7.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
 56.71 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 64.37 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
Financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables
 29.16 
 0.20 
 0.09 
 63.60 
 29.16 
 0.20 
 0.09 
 63.60 
Net Exposure
 35.21 
 (0.16)
 (0.09)
 (63.60)
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
arch 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2024
USD in Lakhs
EUR in Lakhs
SGD in Lakhs
JPY in Lakhs
Financial assets 
Other Non-current financial 
assets
 1.30 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
 47.42 
 0.06 
 - 
 - 
 48.72 
 0.06 
 - 
 - 
Financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables
 13.48 
 0.18 
 0.09 
 - 
 13.48 
 0.18 
 0.09 
 - 
Net Exposure
 35.24 
 (0.12)
 (0.09)
 - 
 
 
The following significant exchange rates have been applied.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year-end spot rate
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
USD / `
 85.53 
 83.34 
EUR / `
 92.60 
 89.93 
SGD / `
 63.69 
 61.68 
JPY / `
 0.57 
 - 
 
 
Sensitivity analysis
 
 
 The Sensitivity of profit or loss to changes in the exchange rates arises mainly from foreign currency denominated 
financial instruments
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
239
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Effect in `
Profit or (loss)
Strengthening
Weakening
As at March 31, 2025
USD 5% movement 
 (150.57)
 150.57 
EUR 5% movement 
 0.74 
 (0.74)
SGD 5% movement 
 0.30 
 (0.30)
JPY 5% movement 
 1.82 
 (1.82)
 (147.71)
 147.71 
 ` in Lakhs
Effect in `
Profit or (loss)
Strengthening
Weakening
As at March 31, 2024
USD 5% movement 
 (146.83)
 146.83 
EUR 5% movement 
 0.54 
 (0.54)
SGD 5% movement 
 0.29 
 (0.29)
 (146.00)
 146.00 
 
 
 In management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk 
because the  exposure at the end of the reporting period does not reflect the exposure during the year.
(c) (ii)  
Market Risk- Interest rate
 
 
 The Exposure of the Company borrowing to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period are as follow:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Variable Rate Borrowing 
 - 
 2,491.97 
 
 
 The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for  non-derivative 
instruments at the end of the reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the 
amount of the liability outstanding at the end of the reporting period was outstanding for the whole year. A 50 
basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel 
and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
 
 
 If interest rates had been 50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the company’s:
 
 
i) 
 profit for the year ended March 31, 2025 would decrease/increase by ` 16.16  lakhs (2024: decrease/ 
increase by  ` 13.87 lakhs). This is mainly attributable to the company’s exposure to interest rates on its 
variable rate borrowings.
 
 
 
 The assumed movement in basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently 
observable market environment, showing a significantly higher volatility than in prior year.
Eureka Forbes Limited
240
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
41 Assets pledged as security
 
The carrying amounts of assets pledged as security for current and non-current borrowings are:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Notes
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current
Financial Assets
Trade Receivable 
 8
 17,988.66 
 13,718.38 
Inventories
13
 24,313.92 
 24,368.54 
Total Current assets pledged as security
 42,302.58 
 38,086.92 
Non-current
Land - Freehold
 3
 6,405.00 
 6,405.00 
Land - Leasehold 
 4
 328.25 
 333.55 
Buildings 
 3
 13,674.39 
 13,954.02 
Other Property, plant and equipment *
 3
 8,164.47 
 6,707.35 
Total Non Current assets pledged as security
 28,572.11 
 27,399.92 
Total assets pledged as security
 70,874.69 
 65,486.84 
 
*  Property, plant and equipment as per note 3 includes moveable asset for employee benefits, which has not been pledged. 
 
No charges or satisfaction are pending to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.
42 Movement in deferred tax balances
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
 As at 
April 1, 
2024 
For the year 2024-25
 As at March 31, 2025 
 Recognised 
in profit or 
loss 
 Acquired 
through 
business 
combination 
 Recognised 
in Goodwill 
 Recognised 
in OCI 
 Net 
 Deferred 
tax asset 
Deferred 
tax 
liability
Deferred tax asset
Property, plant and 
equipment
 4,764.12 
 150.94 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,915.06 
 - 
 4,915.06 
Provisions
 (1,322.60)
 121.21 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,201.39)
 (1,201.39)
 - 
Lease Liabilities 
 53.56 
 (26.07)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 27.49 
 - 
 27.49 
Merger expenses 
 (338.03)
 28.71 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (309.32)
 (309.32)
 - 
Amortisation of 
Processing fees
 2.02 
 (2.02)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Fair Valuation 
 78,103.81 
 (617.22)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 77,486.59 
 -  77,486.59 
Expenses allowed on 
Payment
 (169.88)
 62.87 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (107.01)
 (107.01)
 - 
Deferred Tax 
(Assets) /Liabilities
 81,093.00 
 (281.58)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 80,811.42  (1,617.72)
 82,429.14 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
241
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
April 1, 
2023
For the year 2023-24
 As at March 31, 2024 
 Recognised 
in profit or 
loss 
 Acquired 
through 
business 
combination 
 Recognised 
in Goodwill 
Recognised 
in OCI
 Net 
 Deferred 
tax asset 
 Deferred 
tax 
liability 
Deferred tax asset
Property, plant and 
equipment
 4,637.80 
 126.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,764.12 
 - 
 4,764.12 
Provisions
 (1,378.08)
 55.48 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,322.60)
 (1,322.60)
 - 
Lease Liabilities 
 58.28 
 (4.72)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 53.56 
 - 
 53.56 
Merger expenses 
 (27.98)
 (310.05)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (338.03)
 (338.03)
 - 
Amortisation of 
Processing fees
 8.44 
 (6.42)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.02 
 - 
 2.02 
Fair Valuation 
 78,721.00 
 (617.19)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 78,103.81 
 -  78,103.81 
Expenses allowed on 
Payment
 (122.04)
 (47.84)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (169.88)
 (169.88)
 - 
Deferred Tax 
(Assets) /Liabilities
 81,897.42 
 (804.42)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 81,093.00  (1,830.50)
 82,923.51 
43 Income Tax expense
(a) Amounts recognised in profit and loss
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current income tax
 5,839.88 
 3,887.91 
Earlier year tax
 - 
 - 
Deferred income tax liability / (asset), net
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
 (281.59)
 (804.42)
Tax expense for the year
 5,558.29 
 3,083.49 
(b) Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars 
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Before 
tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Before 
tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
 Net of 
tax 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit 
or loss
Remeasurements of the defined benefit 
plans
 (458.86)
 115.45 
 (343.41)
 (315.04)
 79.16 
 (235.88)
Equity Instruments through Other 
Comprehensive Income
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 (458.86)
 115.45 
 (343.41)
 (315.04)
 79.16 
 (235.88)
Eureka Forbes Limited
242
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
(c) Reconciliation of effective tax rate
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Profit before tax
 21,886.94 
 12,240.34 
Tax using the Company’s domestic tax rate : 25.168%
 5,508.5 
 3,080.65 
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in 
calculating taxable income
 30.2 
 8.30 
Other tax adjustment (including re-assessment of deferred taxes 
post business combination)
 19.6 
 (5.46)
Total
 5,558.29 
 3,083.49 
 
 The tax rate used for the year 2024-25 and 2023-24 reconciliations above is the corporate tax rate of 25.168% payable 
by corporate entities in India on taxable profits under the Indian tax law.
44 Key Financial Ratios:
Sr. 
No 
Particulars
Numerator 
Denominator 
2024-25
2023-24
% 
Change 
Refer 
Note
1
Current Ratio (times)
Current assets
Current liabilities
 0.80 
 0.61 
 30.89 
a
2
Debt equity ratio 
(times) 
Total debt
Equity
 0.01 
 0.01 
 - 
3
Debt service coverage 
ratio (times)
Earnings available 
for debt service
Total debt service
 4.96 
 1.41 
 251.61 
b
4
Return on equity (%)
Net profit after tax 
Average shareholder 
equity
3.80%
2.21%
 71.98 
c
5
Inventory turnover 
ratio (times)
Cost of Goods 
sold 
Average inventory
 4.17 
 3.96 
 5.27 
6
Trade receivables 
turnover ratio (times)
Net sales
Average accounts 
receivables
 15.37 
 16.85 
 (8.83)
7
Trade payable 
turnover ratio (times)
Total purchases 
Average trade 
payables
 5.03 
 4.23 
 18.96 
8
Net capital turnover 
ratio (times)
Sales
Current Assets minus 
Current Liabilities.
 (12.75)
 (5.81)
 119.51 
d
9
Net profit ratio (%)
Net profit after tax 
Sales
6.70%
4.18%
 60.25 
e
10
Return on capital 
employed (%)
Earnings before 
interest and tax 
divided 
Capital employed 
(refer note (h))
353.22% -125.12%
 (382.31)
f
11
Return on investment 
(%)
Return on 
Investment 
Average total current 
investment
7.03%
6.35%
 10.70 
 
Notes: Explanation for change in the ratio by more than 25%
 
(a) 
Increase in current ratio due to increase in cash generation from business operation and reduction in borrowings.
 
(b) 
Higher earning and repayment of borrowings during current year.
 
(c) 
Higher net profit after tax during the current year with improved efficiency.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
243
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
(d) 
 Revenue growth along with higher efficiency on working capital improvement has resulted in an improvement in the ratio.
 
(e) 
Higher net profit after tax during the current year with higher revenue.
 
(f) 
Increase in earnings and reduction in borrowings on account of repayment.
 
(g) 
 The calculation for above ratios is in accordance with formula prescribed by Guidance note on Schedule III issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
 
(h) 
Capital employed = Tangible Net Worth# + Total Debt + Deferred Tax Liability.
 
 
# In order to derive the tangible net worth, goodwill and other intangible assets have been reduced from the total net worth.
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Arvind Uppal 
Chairman
(DIN-00104992)
Pratik R. Pota
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN-00751178)
Gaurav Khandelwal 
Chief Financial Officer 
Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Eureka Forbes Limited
244
Independent Auditor’s Report
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements of Eureka Forbes Limited (the “Parent”) 
and its subsidiaries, (the Parent and its subsidiaries 
together referred to as the “Group”) which comprise the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2025, and the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated Statement of 
Cash Flows and the Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity for the year ended on that date, and notes to 
the financial statements, including a summary of material 
accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, and based on the 
consideration of reports of the other auditors on separate 
financial statements of the subsidiaries referred to in the 
Other Matters section below, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the 
Act, (“Ind AS”) and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of 
To The Members of 
Eureka Forbes Limited
the Group as at 31 March 2025, and their consolidated 
profit, their consolidated total comprehensive income, their 
consolidated cash flows and their consolidated changes in 
equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing 
(“SA”s) specified under section 143 (10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our 
report. We are independent of the Group, in accordance 
with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) together with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements under the provisions 
of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. 
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and 
the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms 
of their reports referred to in the sub-paragraph (a) of the 
Other Matters section below, is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these 
matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key Audit Matter
Auditor’s Response
Impairment 
of 
Intangible 
assets 
(Brand 
Name 
/ Trademarks) with indefinite life and Goodwill 
impairment.
Refer Note 5 and 33S to the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements.
The consolidated balance sheet of the Group as on 
31 March 2025 comprises of ` 310,070 lakhs of intangible 
assets with indefinite life and ` 205,582 lakhs of goodwill, 
pertaining to acquisition of a business in the earlier years, 
which in aggregate represents 81% of the total assets of 
the Group.
Principal audit procedures performed:
We obtained understanding of the process followed by 
the Group in respect of the assessment of impairment 
of Intangible assets (Brand Name / Trademarks) with 
indefinite life and Goodwill.
n 
 Evaluated Group’s accounting policy in respect of 
impairment assessment of Intangibles with indefinite 
life and goodwill.
n 
 Evaluated the design and implementation and 
testing the operating effectiveness of key internal 
controls related to the Group’s process relating to the 
impairment analysis, key assumptions and review of 
the valuation methodology.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
245
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Key Audit Matter
Auditor’s Response
The recoverable value of the intangible assets with 
indefinite life and goodwill which is based on the value in 
use model, has been derived using the discounted cash 
flow (DCF) method. This method requires the Group to 
make significant assumptions such as discount rate, near 
and long-term revenue growth rate and projected margins 
which involves inherent uncertainty since they are based 
on future business prospects and economic outlook.
Due to the materiality of above assets in the context of the 
consolidated financial statements and judgements applied 
in determining the recoverable value, we have considered 
assessment of impairment of Intangible assets (Brand 
Name / Trademarks) with indefinite life and Goodwill to be 
a key audit matter.
n 
 Assessed the professional competence, objectivity 
and expertise of those involved in performing the 
valuation exercise for the Group.
n 
 Obtained understanding of the cash flow projections 
and assumptions used in the DCF model.
n 
 Tested the appropriateness of the input data 
considered for the purposes of valuation by reconciling 
the projected cash flows with the underlying business 
plan and related details.
n 
 Involved the internal valuation professionals with 
specialized skills and knowledge to assist in 
evaluating the impairment model used, evaluating the 
mathematical accuracy and assumptions (including 
discount rate and growth rate applied by the Group) 
and applying additional sensitivities to assess the 
reasonableness of the above key assumptions.
n 
 Performed a sensitivity analysis to evaluate the 
impact of change in key assumptions individually or 
collectively to the recoverable value.
n 
 Evaluated the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in 
the consolidated financial statements in respect of its 
impairment testing.
Information Other than the Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon
n 
 The Parent’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Management Discussion 
and Analysis and Board’s Report including annexures 
to Board’s Report, but does not include the consolidated 
financial statements, standalone financial statements 
and our auditor’s report thereon. The aforesaid other 
information is expected to be made available to us 
after the date of this auditor’s report.
n 
 Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements 
does not cover the other information and will not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
n 
 In connection with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information identified above when it becomes 
available, compare with the financial statements of 
the subsidiaries audited by the other auditors, to the 
extent it relates to these entities and, in doing so, 
place reliance on the work of the other auditors and 
consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements 
or our knowledge obtained during the course of our 
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
Other information so far as it relates to the subsidiaries 
is traced from their financial statements audited by the 
other auditors.
n 
 When we read the other information, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we are 
required to communicate the matter to those charged 
with governance as required under SA 720 ‘The 
Auditor’s responsibilities Relating to Other Information’.
Responsibilities of Management and Board 
of Directors for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
The Parent’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to 
the preparation of these consolidated financial statements 
that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial 
position, consolidated financial performance including 
other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and 
consolidated changes in equity of the Group in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
including Ind AS specified under section 133 of the Act. 
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are responsible for maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group for preventing 
and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and 
application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the 
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are 
Eureka Forbes Limited
246
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation 
of the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of 
the Parent, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the 
respective Management and Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group are responsible for 
assessing the ability of the respective entities to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related 
to going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless the respective Board of Directors either 
intend to liquidate their respective entities or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are also responsible for overseeing 
the financial reporting process of the Group.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
n 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.
n 
 Obtain 
an 
understanding 
of 
internal 
financial 
controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. 
Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also 
responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the 
Parent has adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements in place 
and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
n 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by the management.
n 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
ability of the Group to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report 
to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the 
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause 
the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
n 
 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the consolidated financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
n 
 Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 
the financial information of the entities or business 
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements. We are responsible 
for the direction, supervision and performance of 
the audit of the financial statements of such entities 
or business activities included in the consolidated 
financial statements of which we are the independent 
auditors. For the other entities or business activities 
included in the consolidated financial statements, 
which have been audited by the other auditors, such 
other auditors remain responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audits carried 
out by them. We remain solely responsible for 
our audit opinion.
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the 
consolidated financial statements that, individually or in 
aggregate, makes it probable that the economic decisions 
of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the consolidated 
financial statements may be influenced. We consider 
quantitative materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning 
the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results 
of our work; and (ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified 
misstatements in the consolidated financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
of the Parent and such other entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal 
financial controls that we identify during our audit.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
247
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matter
We did not audit the financial statements of 4 subsidiaries, 
whose financial statements reflect total assets of ` 5,824.19 
lakhs as at 31 March 2025, total revenues of ` 4,355.86 lakhs 
and net cash inflows amounting to ` 2,418.89 lakhs for the 
year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated 
financial statements. These financial statements have 
been audited by other auditors whose reports have been 
furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on 
the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates 
to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of 
these subsidiaries, and our report in terms of subsection 
(3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the 
aforesaid subsidiaries is based solely on the reports of the 
other auditors.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements above 
and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
below, is not modified in respect of the above matter with 
respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of 
the other auditors.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
1. 
 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on 
our audit and on the consideration of the reports of the 
other auditors on the separate financial statements of 
the subsidiaries referred to in the Other Matter section 
above we report, to the extent applicable that:
 
a) 
 We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for 
the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements.
 
b) 
 In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements have been 
kept by the Group, including relevant records so 
far as it appears from our examination of those 
books and the reports of the other auditors.
 
c) 
 The 
Consolidated 
Balance 
Sheet, 
the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
including Other Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
dealt with by this Report are in agreement with 
the relevant books of account maintained for 
the purpose of preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements.
 
d) 
 In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements comply with the Ind AS 
specified under Section 133 of the Act.
 
e) 
 On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Parent as on 
31 March 2025, taken on record by the Board of 
Directors of the Company and the reports of the 
statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies 
incorporated in India, none of the directors of 
the Group companies incorporated in India is 
disqualified as on 31 March 2025 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 
(2) of the Act.
 
f) 
 With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial 
statements 
and 
the 
operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our 
separate Report in “Annexure A” which is 
based on the auditors’ reports of the Parent and 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India. 
Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on the 
adequacy and operating effectiveness of internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements of those companies.
 
g) 
 With respect to the other matter to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the 
requirements of section 197(16) of the Act, as 
amended, in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations 
given to us and based on the auditor’s reports of 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India, the 
remuneration paid/ provided by the Parent and 
such subsidiary companies to their respective 
directors during the year is in accordance with 
the provisions of section 197 of the Act.
 
h) 
 With respect to the other matter to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 
11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, as amended in our opinion and to the 
best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
Eureka Forbes Limited
248
 
i) 
 The consolidated financial statements disclose the 
impact of pending litigations on the consolidated 
financial position of the Group - Refer Note 33A to 
the consolidated financial statements;
 
ii) 
 The Group did not have any material foreseeable 
losses 
on 
long-term 
contracts 
including 
derivative contracts.
 
iii) 
 There were no amounts which were required 
to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Parent, and its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India.
 
iv) 
(a)  The respective Managements of the Parent 
and its subsidiaries, which are companies 
incorporated in India, whose financial 
statements have been audited under the 
Act, have represented to us and to the other 
auditors of such subsidiaries respectively 
that, to the best of their knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in the note 33E to the 
consolidated 
financial 
statements, 
no 
funds have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds or 
share premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the Parent or any of such 
subsidiaries to or in any other person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, directly or 
indirectly lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Parent or any of such 
subsidiaries (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
 
 
(b)  The respective Managements of the Parent 
and its subsidiaries, which are companies 
incorporated in India, whose financial 
statements have been audited under the 
Act, have represented to us and to the other 
auditors of such subsidiaries respectively 
that, to the best of their knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in the note 33F to the 
consolidated financial statements, no funds 
have been received by the Parent or any 
of such subsidiaries from any person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Parent or any of such subsidiaries 
shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
 
 
(c)  Based on the audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances performed 
by us and that performed by the auditors 
of the subsidiaries which are companies 
incorporated 
in 
India 
whose 
financial 
statements have been audited under the Act, 
nothing has come to our or other auditor’s 
notice that has caused us or the other 
auditors to believe that the representations 
under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as 
provided under (a) and (b) above, contain 
any material misstatement.
 
v. 
 The Parent and its subsidiaries which are 
companies incorporated in India, whose financial 
statements have been audited under the Act, have 
not declared or paid any dividend during the year 
and have not proposed final dividend for the year.
 
vi. 
 Based on our examination which included test 
checks and that performed by the respective 
auditors of the subsidiaries incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been audited 
under the Act, the Parent and its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India have used 
accounting software systems for maintaining their 
respective books of account for the financial year 
ended 31 March 2025 which have the feature 
of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the 
same has operated throughout the year for all 
relevant transactions recorded in the software 
systems. Further, during the course of audit, we 
and respective other auditors, whose reports 
have been furnished to us by the Management 
of the Parent, have not come across any instance 
of the audit trail feature being tampered with. 
Additionally, the audit trail has been preserved 
by the Parent and above referred subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
249
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
 
2. 
 With respect to the matters specified in clause (xxi) of paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 of the Companies (Auditor’s 
Report) Order, 2020 (“CARO”/ “the Order”) issued by the Central Government in terms of Section 143(11) of the 
Act, according to the information and explanations given to us, and based on the CARO reports issued by us 
and the auditors of respective companies included in the consolidated financial statements to which reporting 
under CARO is applicable, as provided to us by the Management of the Parent, we report that there are no 
qualifications or adverse remarks by the respective auditors in the CARO reports of the said companies included 
in the consolidated financial statements.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No.117366W/W-100018)
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Place: Mumbai 
 Membership No. 049660
Date: 16 May 2025 
 (UDIN: 25049660BMOCBV1617)
Eureka Forbes Limited
250
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”)
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS 
financial statements of the Company as at and for the 
year ended 31 March 2025, we have audited the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of Eureka Forbes Limited (hereinafter referred 
to as “Parent”) and its subsidiary companies, which are 
companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s 
and 
Board 
of 
Directors’ 
Responsibilities for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Company’s management and Board 
of Directors of the Parent, its subsidiary companies, 
incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing 
and maintaining internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements based on “the 
internal control with reference to consolidated financial 
statements 
criteria 
established 
by 
the 
respective 
Companies considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI)”. 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to 
the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its 
assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
as required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of the Parent and its subsidiary companies, 
which are companies incorporated in India, based on 
our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with 
the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued 
by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed 
under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the 
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements. 
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we 
comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
Annexure “A” to the Independent Auditor’s Report
(Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
consolidated financial statements was established and 
maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all 
material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements included obtaining an understanding of internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and 
the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors of the 
subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated 
in India, in terms of their reports referred to in the Other 
Matter paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of the Parent, its subsidiary companies, which 
are companies incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements
A company’s internal financial control with reference to 
consolidated financial statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s 
internal financial control with reference to consolidated 
financial 
statements 
includes 
those 
policies 
and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records 
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; 
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the company are being made only in accordance 
with authorisations of management and directors of the 
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, 
use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have 
a material effect on the financial statements.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
251
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls 
with 
reference 
to 
consolidated 
financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or improper 
management override of controls, material misstatements 
due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal 
financial control with reference to consolidated financial 
statements may become inadequate because of changes 
in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion to the best of our information and according to 
the explanations given to us and based on the consideration 
of the reports of the other auditors referred to in the Other 
Matters paragraph below, the Parent, its subsidiary 
companies which are companies incorporated in India, 
have, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
and such internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements were operating effectively 
as at 31 March 2025, based on the criteria for internal 
financial control with reference to consolidated financial 
statements established by the respective companies 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the ICAI.
Other Matter
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on 
the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements insofar as it relates to two subsidiary companies 
which are companies incorporated in India, is based 
solely on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such 
companies incorporated in India.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the above matter.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No.117366W/W-100018)
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Place: Mumbai 
 Membership No. 049660
Date: 16 May 2025 
 (UDIN: 25049660BMOCBV1617)
Eureka Forbes Limited
252
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Notes
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
ASSETS
Non-current Assets
(a) 
Property, plant and equipment
 3
 28,518.78 
 27,360.48 
(b) 
Right of use assets
 4
 2,664.54 
 1,594.79 
(c) 
Goodwill
 5a
 2,05,581.67 
 2,05,581.67 
(d) 
Goodwill on consolidation
 5b
 299.46 
 299.46 
(e)
Other intangible assets
 6a
 3,10,070.46 
 3,11,455.07 
(f)
Intangible assets under development
 6b
 192.07 
 122.19 
(g)
Financial assets
(i)
Investments
 7
 1.42 
 1.42 
(ii)
Trade receivables
 8
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Other financial assets
10
 1,591.91 
 1,268.45 
(h)
Income tax asset (net)
11
 2,224.37 
 3,117.80 
(i)
Deferred tax assets (net)
23
 119.94 
 125.11 
(j)
Other non-current assets 
12
 2,743.92 
 1,279.41 
Total Non-current Assets
 5,54,008.54 
 5,52,205.85 
Current Assets
(a) 
Inventories
13
 25,289.46 
 25,270.70 
(b)
Financial assets
(i)
Investments
 7
 5,894.94 
 5,494.84 
(ii)
Trade receivables
 8
 18,011.55 
 13,751.84 
(iii)
Cash and cash equivalents
14
 9,550.93 
 6,132.17 
(iv)
Bank balances other than (iii) above
14
 15,614.59 
 3,622.50 
(v)
Loans
 9
 48.15 
 48.07 
(vi)
Other financial assets
10
 61.19 
 90.70 
(c) 
Other current assets
12
 5,302.73 
 6,322.95 
Total Current Assets
 79,773.54 
 60,733.77 
Total Assets
 6,33,782.08 
 6,12,939.62 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
(a)
Equity share capital 
15
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92 
(b)
Other equity 
16
 4,21,520.82 
 4,03,216.45 
Non-controlling interest
 121.28 
 119.97 
Total Equity
 4,40,990.02 
 4,22,684.34 
Liabilities
Non-current Liabilities
(a)
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings 
17
 - 
 - 
(ii)
Lease liabilities 
20
 1,547.04 
 409.66 
(b)
Provisions
21
 118.13 
 377.67 
(c)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
23
 80,853.99 
 81,135.58 
(d)
Other non-current liabilities
22
 15,086.81 
 13,150.68 
Total Non-current Liabilities
 97,605.97 
 95,073.59 
Current Liabilities
(a) 
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings 
17
 - 
 2,491.97 
(ii)
Lease liabilities 
20
 1,008.31 
 972.81 
(iii)
Trade and other payables
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
18
 4,837.83 
 6,936.87 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
18
 13,479.34 
 12,427.39 
(iv)
Other financial liabilities
19
 20,062.65 
 18,416.32 
(b) 
Provisions
21
 2,533.32 
 2,366.46 
(c)
Income tax liabilities (net)
11
 11,888.32 
 6,476.65 
(d)
Other current liabilities
22
 41,376.33 
 45,093.22 
Total Current Liabilities
 95,186.10 
 95,181.69 
Total Liabilities
 1,92,792.07 
 1,90,255.28 
Total Equity and Liabilities
 6,33,782.08 
 6,12,939.62 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Arvind Uppal 
Chairman
(DIN-00104992)
Pratik R. Pota
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN-00751178)
Gaurav Khandelwal 
Chief Financial Officer 
Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
253
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
for the year ended March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Notes
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I
Income 
Revenue from Operations
 24
 2,43,691.43 
 2,18,925.02 
Other income and other gains / (losses) - net
 25
 1,456.46 
 877.95 
Total Income
 2,45,147.89 
 2,19,802.97 
II
Expenses
Cost of Materials Consumed
 26
 91,576.86 
 82,128.68 
Purchases of stock-in-trade
 26
 9,343.97 
 10,382.56 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, spares, stock-in-trade 
and work-in-progress
 26
 (154.32)
 (3,655.31)
Employee benefits expense
 27
 33,048.50 
 32,980.08 
Finance costs
 28
 562.90 
 977.45 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 29
 5,800.19 
 5,402.70 
Other expenses
 30
 83,317.70 
 77,224.53 
Total expenses
 2,23,495.80 
 2,05,440.70 
III
Profit before exceptional items and tax
 21,652.09 
 14,362.27 
Add/(Less) : Exceptional items 
33T
 417.69 
 (1,514.90)
IV
Profit before tax and after exceptional items 
 22,069.78 
 12,847.37 
Less: Tax expense
Current tax
 31
 5,901.97 
 4,083.35 
Deferred tax benefit
 31
 (273.66)
 (800.95)
 5,628.31 
 3,282.40 
V
Profit for the year
 16,441.47 
 9,564.97 
VI
Other Comprehensive Income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss
Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans gain/(loss)
 (458.86)
 (315.04)
Income tax relating to above
 112.25 
 77.76 
Items that may be reclassified to statement of profit and loss
Exchange difference on translation of financial statements of 
foreign operations
 1.65 
 24.58 
 (344.96)
 (212.70)
VII
Total Comprehensive Income for the year
 16,096.51 
 9,352.27 
Profit for the year attributable to: 
- Owners of the Company
 16,440.04 
 9,563.86 
- Non-controlling interests
 1.43 
 1.11 
 16,441.47 
 9,564.97 
Other comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
- Owners of the Company
 (344.84)
 (212.69)
- Non-controlling interests
 (0.12)
 (0.01)
 (344.96)
 (212.70)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
- Owners of the Company
 16,095.19 
 9,351.17 
- Non-controlling interests
 1.32 
 1.10 
 16,096.51 
 9,352.27 
Earnings per equity share:
(1) 
Basic (in `)
32
 8.46 
 4.94 
(2) 
Diluted (in `)
32
 8.46 
 4.93 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Arvind Uppal 
Chairman
(DIN-00104992)
Pratik R. Pota
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN-00751178)
Gaurav Khandelwal 
Chief Financial Officer 
Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Eureka Forbes Limited
254
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow
for the year ended March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax and after exceptional items 
 22,069.78 
 12,847.37 
Adjustments for: 
Finance costs recognised in profit and loss
 260.07 
 786.46 
Interest on lease liabilities
 302.83 
 190.99 
Gain on modification/disposal of right of use assets 
 - 
 (9.58)
Gain on disposal of investments recognised in profit and loss
 - 
 (47.68)
Fair value of Investment at FVTPL
 (400.10)
 (367.21)
Interest income
 (721.76)
 (206.12)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 (153.41)
 (60.13)
Net foreign exchange (gain)/loss - unrealised
 (12.86)
 24.22 
Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans
 - 
 78.15 
Provision/write-off of doubtful debts, advances and other current assets
 (79.37)
 161.99 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses on property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets
 4,413.28 
 4,148.85 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses on right of use assets
 1,386.91 
 1,253.85 
Exceptional items
 883.43 
 1,514.90 
Employee stock option scheme reserve
 2,209.12 
 3,448.76 
Operating Profit before Working capital Changes 
 30,157.92 
 23,764.82 
Movements in working capital:
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables
 (4,180.34)
 (1,546.88)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories
 (902.19)
 (4,782.50)
(Increase)/decrease in loans and advances
 (0.08)
 (41.55)
(Increase)/decrease in other assets
 1,007.56 
 (784.51)
(Increase)/decrease in other Financial assets
 (277.04)
 (93.71)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables
 (1,035.33)
 (1,501.31)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions
 (551.55)
 (244.75)
Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities
 (134.43)
 4,817.84 
Cash generated from operations
 24,084.52 
 19,587.45 
Less : Income taxes (paid) / refund received 
 515.38 
 (140.27)
Net cash generated from operating activities
 24,599.90 
 19,447.18 
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received
 721.76 
 206.12 
Payments for property, plant and equipment, intangible assets under 
development and other intangible assets
 (5,966.12)
 (2,839.53)
Proceeds from sale of mutual funds
 - 
 2,500.00 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment
 410.86 
 338.66 
Movement in Bank Balance other than Cash & Cash equivalents
 (12,009.00)
 (3,368.11)
Net cash used in investing activities
 (16,842.50)
 (3,162.86)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
255
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow
for the year ended March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of borrowings
 (2,500.00)
 (2,496.43)
Net decrease in working capital borrowings
 - 
 (7,139.43)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (1,586.60)
 (1,418.87)
Interest paid
 (252.04)
 (951.96)
Net cash used in financing activities
 (4,338.64)
 (12,006.69)
Net Increase in cash and cash equivalents
 3,418.76 
 4,277.63 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 6,132.17 
 1,854.54 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 
 9,550.93 
 6,132.17 
Net Increase in cash and cash equivalents as disclosed above 
 3,418.76 
 4,277.63 
Note: The above Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the “Indirect Method” as set out in the Indian Accounting 
Standard (Ind AS-7) Statement of Cash Flow.
Changes in carrying amount of lease liabilities and borrowings included under financing activities under statements 
of cash flow :
 ` in Lakhs
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities :
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Opening Balance
 3,874.44 
 13,994.62 
Changes due to cash flow
 (4,086.60)
 (11,054.73)
Non-cash change loss
 2,767.51 
 934.55 
Closing balance
 2,555.35 
 3,874.44 
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Arvind Uppal 
Chairman
(DIN-00104992)
Pratik R. Pota
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN-00751178)
Gaurav Khandelwal 
Chief Financial Officer 
Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Eureka Forbes Limited
256
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended March 31, 2025
A.  Equity share capital
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024
Opening Balance at the beginning of the year
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92 
Movement during the year
 - 
 - 
Closing Balance at the end of the year
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92 
B.  Other equity
 
As at March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars 
Reserves and Surplus 
Attributable 
to Owners 
of the 
Company
Non-
controlling 
interest
Total Other 
Equity
Retained 
earnings
Securities 
Premium 
Capital 
Reserve 
Employee 
stock 
option 
scheme 
reserve 
Foreign 
Currency 
Translation 
Reserve
As at April 1, 2024
 11,290.47 
 3,87,063.45 
 1,413.14 
 3,448.76 
 0.63 
 4,03,216.45 
 119.96 
 4,03,336.41 
Add: 
Profit for the year
 16,440.09 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 16,440.09 
 1.43 
 16,441.52 
Other 
comprehensive loss 
for the year, net of 
income tax 
 (346.49)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (346.49)
 (0.12)
 (346.61)
Exchange 
difference on 
translation of non-
intergral foreign 
operations arisen 
during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.65 
 1.65 
 - 
 1.65 
Total 
comprehensive 
income for the 
year
 16,093.60 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.65 
 16,095.25 
 1.31 
 16,096.56 
Additions during 
the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,209.12 
 - 
 2,209.12 
 - 
 2,209.12 
Balance at March 
31, 2025
 27,384.07 
 3,87,063.45 
 1,413.14 
 5,657.88 
 2.28 
 4,21,520.82 
 121.27 
 4,21,642.09 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
257
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended March 31, 2025
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Arvind Uppal 
Chairman
(DIN-00104992)
Pratik R. Pota
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN-00751178)
Gaurav Khandelwal 
Chief Financial Officer 
Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Dated : May 16, 2025 
 
As at March 31, 2024
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars 
Reserves and Surplus 
Attributable 
to Owners 
of the 
Company
Non-
controlling 
interest
Total Other 
Equity
Retained 
earnings
Securities 
Premium 
Capital 
Reserve 
Employee 
stock 
option 
scheme 
reserve 
Foreign 
Currency 
Translation 
Reserve
As at April 1, 2023
 1,963.88 
 3,87,063.45 
 1,413.14 
 - 
 (23.95)
 3,90,416.52 
 118.86 
 3,90,535.38 
Add: 
Profit for the year
 9,563.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9,563.86 
 1.11 
 9,564.97 
Other 
comprehensive loss 
for the year, net of 
income tax 
 (237.27)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (237.27)
 (0.01)
 (237.28)
Exchange 
difference on 
translation of non-
intergral foreign 
operations arisen 
during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24.58 
 24.58 
 - 
 24.58 
Total 
comprehensive 
income for the 
year
 9,326.59 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24.58 
 9,351.17 
 1.10 
 9,352.27 
Additions during 
the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,448.76 
 - 
 3,448.76 
 - 
 3,448.76 
Balance at March 
31, 2024
 11,290.47 
 3,87,063.45 
 1,413.14 
 3,448.76 
 0.63 
 4,03,216.45 
 119.96 
 4,03,336.41 
Eureka Forbes Limited
258
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Background
The consolidated financial statements comprise financial 
statements of Eureka Forbes Limited (the company) and its 
subsidiaries (collectively, the Group) for the year ended 31 
March 2025. Eureka Forbes Limited is a limited company 
incorporated and domiciled in India with its registered office 
situated at B1/B2, 701, Marathon Innova, Off Ganpatrao 
Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, (West), Mumbai – 400013.
The Group is engaged in Manufacturing, selling, renting and 
servicing of Vacuum cleaners, Water Filter cum purifiers, 
trading in electronic air cleaning system etc.
Note 1:
A.  Basis of preparation of consolidated financial 
statements
 
 This note provides a list of material accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these consolidated 
financial statements. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented unless 
otherwise stated.
 
(a)  Compliance with Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS)
 
 
 These consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under 
section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (the Act) 
[Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015] and other relevant provisions of the Act.
 
(b) Historical Cost convention
 
 
 The Consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on a historical cost basis, on accrual 
basis of accounting except for certain financial 
assets 
and 
liabilities 
(including 
derivative 
instruments) that are measured at fair value and 
the assets and liabilities of 2 subsidiaries whose 
financial statements have been prepared on 
realization basis.
 
(c) Functional and presentation currency
 
 
 These consolidated financial statements are 
presented in Indian Rupees (`), which is also the 
group’s functional currency.
 
(d) Use of estimates and judgements
 
 
 In 
preparing 
these 
consolidated 
financial 
statements, management has made judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of accounting policies and the 
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income 
and expenses. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
 
 
 Estimates 
and 
underlying 
assumptions 
are 
reviewed 
on 
an 
ongoing 
basis. 
Revisions 
to 
accounting 
estimates 
are 
recognised prospectively.
 
 
Judgements
 
 
 Information about judgements made in applying 
accounting policies that have the most significant 
effects on the amounts recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements is included in 
the following notes:
 
 
 Note 2(g) and Note 3 – Useful lives of Property, 
plant and equipment
 
 
 Note 2(h), Note 5(a) and Note 6(a) – Useful and 
indefinite lives of Intangible assets
 
 
 Note 2(i) and Note 27 and Note 36 – Employee 
Benefit Expense
 
 
 Note 21, Note 33A and Note 33I – Provisions and 
Contingent liabilities
 
 
 Note 21 and Note 33I – Estimation for provision of 
Warranty Claims
 
 
Note 8 – Impairment of Trade Receivables
 
 
 Note 2(n), Note 11, Note 31 and Note 
44 – Income taxes
 
 
 Note 2(n), Note 23 and Note 43 – Recognition 
of Deferred taxes
 
 
Note 2(m)– Refund Liabilities
 
 
 Note 2(q) and Note 5(b) - Impairment of Goodwill 
on consolidation
 
 
 Note 33S - Impairment testing of goodwill and 
intangible assets with indefinite useful life
 
 
 Note 27 and Note 37 - Employee stock 
option scheme expense
 
 
Share-based payments
 
 
 Estimating fair value for share-based payment 
transactions requires determination of the most 
appropriate valuation model, which depends 
on the terms and conditions of the grant. 
This estimate also requires determination of the 
most appropriate inputs to the valuation model 
including the expected life of the share option 
or appreciation right, volatility and dividend yield 
and making assumptions about them. For the 
measurement of the fair value of equity-settled 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
259
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
transactions with employees at the grant date, 
the Company uses a Black Scholes model and 
Monte-Carlo simulation model basis the type of 
option granted. The assumptions and models 
used for estimating fair value for share-based 
payment transactions are disclosed in Note 37.
 
 
Assumptions and estimation uncertainties
 
 
 Information about assumptions and estimation 
uncertainties that have a significant risk of 
resulting in a material adjustment in the next year 
is included in the note below.
 
 
(i) 
 Note 33A and Note 33I – Recognition 
and 
measurement 
of 
provisions 
and 
contingencies: 
key 
assumptions 
about 
the 
likelihood 
and 
magnitude 
of 
an 
outflow of resources.
 
 
(ii) 
 Note 33S - Impairment testing of goodwill and 
intangible assets with indefinite useful life
 
 
 
 Assets are tested for impairment on an 
annual basis and whenever there is an 
indication that the recoverable amount is 
less than its carrying amount based on 
a number of factors including operating 
results, business plans, future cash flows 
and economic conditions. The recoverable 
amount is determined based on higher of 
value-in-use and fair value less cost to sell. 
Market related information and estimates are 
used to determine the recoverable amount. 
Key assumptions on which management 
has based its determination of recoverable 
amount 
include 
estimated 
long 
term 
growth rates, weighted average cost of 
capital and estimated operating margins. 
Cash flow projections take into account past 
experience and represent management’s 
best estimate about future developments.
 
 
(iii)  Note 37 - Employee share option scheme 
– The cost of equity-settled transactions is 
determined by fair value at the grant date 
using an appropriate valuation model and 
recognized as an employee benefits expense 
over the vesting period. This expense 
reflects the best estimate of the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately 
vest. Service and non-market performance 
conditions are assessed separately from 
market conditions, which are included in 
the grant date fair value. Modifications 
to awards are expensed based on the 
increased fair value, and cancellations are 
expensed immediately. The dilutive effect 
of outstanding options is included in diluted 
earnings per share calculations.
 
(e) Measurement of fair values
 
 
 A number of the group’s accounting policies 
and disclosures require the measurement of fair 
values, for both financial assets and liabilities.
 
 
 Fair Value is the price that would be received to 
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an 
orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date. The Fair value 
measurement is based on the presumption that 
the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the 
liability takes place either:
 
 
•  
 In the principal market for the asset 
or liability, or
 
 
•  
 In the absence of a principal market, in 
the most advantageous market for the 
assets or liability.
 
 
 All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the financial statements 
are categorized within the fair value hierarchy 
that categorizes into three levels, described as 
follows, the inputs to valuation techniques used 
to measure value. the fair value hierarchy gives 
the highest priority to quoted prices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 
inputs) and lowest priority to unobservable inputs 
(Level 3 inputs).
 
 
 Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 
 
 Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included 
in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or 
liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly 
(i.e. derived from prices).
 
 
 Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that 
are not based on observable market data 
(unobservable inputs).
 
 
 The group recognises transfers between levels of 
the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting 
period during which the change has occurred.
 
 
 Further information about the assumptions made 
in measuring fair values is included in Note 39 – 
Financial instruments.
Eureka Forbes Limited
260
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
B. Principles of Consolidation
 
(a)  The Consolidated Financial Statements relate 
to Eureka Forbes Limited (the “Company”), 
and its subsidiaries (the Company and its 
subsidiaries constitute the “Group”) which have 
been prepared in accordance with the Indian 
Accounting Standard on Consolidated Financial 
Statements (Ind AS) 110 and Investments in 
Associates and Joint Ventures (Ind AS) 28 
specified under section 133 of the Companies 
Act, 2013. Further the Consolidated Financial 
Statements include investments in associates 
accounted for using equity method in accordance 
with the Accounting Standard on Accounting 
for investments in associates in consolidated 
financial Statements (Ind AS) 28 specified under 
section 133 the Companies Act, 2013.
 
(b)  The financial statements of the Company and 
its subsidiaries have been consolidated on 
line-by-line basis by adding together the book 
values of like items of assets, liabilities, income 
and expenses, after fully eliminating intra-group 
balances, intra-group transactions and resulting 
unrealized profits or losses.
 
(c)  The excess of cost of investment in the 
subsidiary over the Group’s portion of equity of 
the subsidiary, at the date on which investment is 
made, is recognized in the financial statements 
as Goodwill on Consolidation.
 
(d)  The excess of Group’s portion of equity of the 
subsidiary over the cost of the investments by the 
Group, at the date on which investments is made, 
is treated as Capital Reserve on Consolidation.
 
(e)  The Goodwill / Capital Reserve is determined 
separately for each subsidiary company and such 
amounts are not set off between different entities.
 
(f) 
 Non-controlling Interests in the net assets of the 
subsidiaries consist of :
 
 
(i) 
 The amount of equity attributable to 
non-controlling interest at the date on which 
investment is made; and
 
 
(ii) 
 The non-controlling interest’s share of 
movements in the equity since the date 
the parent-subsidiary relationship came 
into existence. The losses applicable to the 
non-controlling interest in a consolidated 
subsidiary may exceed the non-controlling 
interest 
in 
the 
equity 
of 
subsidiary. 
The 
excess, 
and 
any 
further 
losses 
applicable to the non-controlling interest, 
are adjusted against the controlling interest 
except to the extent that the non-controlling 
interest has a binding obligation to, and is 
able to, make good the losses.
 
(g)  Figures pertaining to the subsidiaries have been 
reclassified wherever necessary to bring them in 
line with the Company’s financial statements.
 
(h) Subsidiaries
 
 
 The consolidated financial statements comprise 
the financial statements of the Company and 
its subsidiaries. Control is achieved when 
the company has:
 
 
•  
Power over the investee
 
 
•  
 Is exposed or has rights to variable returns 
from its involvement with the investee, and
 
 
•  
 has the ability to use its Power over the 
investee to affect its returns
 
 
 Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the point in time at 
which the control is transferred to the Group 
and are no longer included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the point in time at 
which the control ceases.
 
 
 The list of subsidiary companies which are 
included in the consolidation and the Group’s 
holdings therein are as under:
Name of the Subsidiary
(with effect from 1st February 2022)
Incorporated in
Percentage of Holding and 
Voting power (%)
As at March 31, 2025
Forbes Aquatech Limited
India
88.49
Infinite Water Solutions Private Limited
India
100
Euro Forbes Limited *
UAE
100
Forbes Lux FZE *
UAE
100
 
 
*   The management of these 2 subsidiaries have changed the basis of accounting from going concern basis to liquidation 
basis. This change of basis was adopted considering that management intends to cease operations of these companies and 
liquidate them.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
261
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
(i) 
 Jointly Controlled Entities and Associates:
 
 
 Interests in jointly controlled entities comprise of 
the share of the Group’s interest in a company in 
which the Group has acquired joint control over 
its economic activities by contractual agreement.
 
 
 Entities are consolidated as Jointly controlled 
entities or associates when the Group, either 
directly or indirectly, has a long-term holding 
usually corresponding to at least 20% but not 
more than 50% of the voting rights and on the 
basis of which the Group has a joint control or 
significant influence during the year, unless it can 
be clearly proven otherwise.
 
 
 Interests in jointly controlled entities and associate 
companies are included in the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group from the point 
in time at which the joint control or significant 
influence is transferred to the Group and are 
no longer included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the point in time at which the 
joint control or significant influence ceases. 
Interests in joint ventures and associate entities 
are aggregated in the consolidated financial 
statements by using Equity Method specified in 
Indian Accounting standard (Ind AS) 28.
 
 
 The Group’s holdings in jointly controlled entities 
and associate companies are reported in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet at an amount 
corresponding to the Group’s share of the jointly 
controlled entities and associate companies’ net 
assets including goodwill / capital reserve on 
consolidation and any impairment.
 
 
 When the Group’s share of any accumulated 
losses exceed the acquisition value of an 
investment, the book value is set to zero and 
the reporting of future losses ceases, unless the 
Group is committed on the basis of guarantees or 
other obligations to the company in question.
 
 
 The portion of unrealised profits and losses 
corresponding to the Group’s participation 
in the jointly controlled entity and associate 
company is eliminated in conjunction with 
transactions between the Group and the jointly 
entities and associate companies; however 
unrealised losses are not eliminated if the cost 
of the transferred asset cannot be recovered. 
The corresponding adjustment is made to the 
value of investments in the jointly controlled 
entities and associate companies.
Note 2: Material Accounting Policies
(a) (i) 
Foreign currency transactions
 
 
 Transactions in currencies other than company’s 
functional currency i.e. Indian Rupee are 
recognised at the exchange rate prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions.
 
 
 Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are translated into the functional 
currency at the exchange rate prevailing at 
the reporting date. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured at fair value in a 
foreign currency are translated into the functional 
currency at the exchange rate when the fair 
value was determined. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured based on historical 
cost in a foreign currency are not re-translated. 
Exchange differences are recognised in profit 
or loss not retranslated, except exchange 
differences arising from the translation of the 
equity investments which are recognised at fair 
value through OCI (FVOCI) are recognised in 
other comprehensive income.
 
(ii) Foreign Subsidiaries
 
 
 The consolidated financial statements includes 
two subsidiaries (previous year: nil) incorporated 
outside India whose financial statements have 
been drawn up in accordance with the generally 
accepted accounting practices (GAAP) as 
applicable in those countries. These financial 
statements have been re-stated in Indian Rupees 
and the resultant exchange gain / loss on 
conversion has been carried forward as Foreign 
Currency Translation Reserve. In the opinion of 
the Management, based on the analysis of the 
significant transactions at subsidiaries, no material 
adjustments are required to be made to comply 
with group accounting policies / Indian GAAP.
(b) Financial Instruments
 
 Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized 
when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instruments. Financial assets and 
financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. 
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial 
liabilities (other than financial assets and financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added 
to or deducted from the fair value of the financial 
assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial 
recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to 
Eureka Forbes Limited
262
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities 
at fair value through profit or loss are recognised 
immediately in profit or loss.
 
Financial Assets
 
 All recognised financial assets are subsequently 
measured in their entirety at either amortised cost 
or fair value, depending on the classification of the 
financial assets.
 
Classification of financial assets
 
 Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost (except for 
debt instruments that are designated as at fair value 
through profit or loss on initial recognition):
 
• 
 The asset is held within a business model whose 
objective is to hold assets in order to collect 
contractual cash flows; and
 
• 
 the contractual terms of the instrument give rise 
on specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding.
 
 Investment in equity instruments of subsidiary, 
associates and joint ventures are measured at cost less 
impairment. All other financial assets are subsequently 
measured at fair value.
 
Effective interest method
 
 The effective interest method is a method of calculating 
the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating 
interest income over the relevant period. The effective 
interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash receipts (including all fees and points paid 
or received that form an integral part of the effective 
interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums 
or discounts) through the expected life of the debt 
instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to 
the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
 
 Income is recognised on an effective interest basis 
for debt instruments other than those financial assets 
classified as at FVTPL. Interest income is recognised 
in profit or loss and is included in the “Other 
income” line item.
 
 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL)
 
 Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value 
at the end of each reporting period, with any gains 
or losses arising on re-measurement recognised in 
profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognised in profit 
or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned 
on the financial asset and is included in the ‘Other 
income’ line item.’
 
 Investments in equity instruments at fair value 
through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
 
 On initial recognition, the Group can make an 
irrevocable election (on an instrument-by-instrument 
basis) to present the subsequent changes in fair value 
in other comprehensive income. This election is not 
permitted if the equity investment is held for trading. 
These elected investments are initially measured at 
fair value plus transaction costs. Subsequently, they 
are measured at fair value with gains and losses 
arising from changes in fair value recognised in 
other comprehensive income and accumulated in 
the reserve for ‘equity instruments through other 
comprehensive income’.
 
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
 
Classification as debt or equity
 
 Debt and equity instruments issued by a Company 
are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity 
in accordance with the substance of the contractual 
arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability 
and an equity instrument.
 
Equity instruments
 
 An equity instrument is any contract that evidences 
a residual interest in the assets of an entity after 
deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued 
by the Company are recognised at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs.
 
Financial liabilities
 
 All financial liabilities are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method or at FVTPL.
 
 Financial liabilities that are not held-for-trading and 
are not designated as at FVTPL are measured at 
amortised cost at the end of subsequent accounting 
periods. The carrying amounts of financial liabilities 
that are subsequently measured at amortised cost are 
determined based on the effective interest method. 
Interest expense that is not capitalised as part of costs 
of an asset is included in the ‘Finance costs’ line item.
(c) Derecognition
 
Financial Assets
 
 The group derecognises a financial asset when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
263
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the 
contractual cash flows in a transaction in which 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership 
of the financial asset are transferred or in which the 
group neither transfers nor retains substantially all of 
the risks and rewards of ownership and does not retain 
control of the financial asset.
 
 If the group enters into transactions whereby it transfers 
assets recognised on its balance sheet, but retains 
either all or substantially all of the risks and rewards 
of the transferred assets, the transferred assets are 
not derecognised.
 
Financial Liabilities
 
 The group derecognises a financial liability when 
its 
contractual 
obligations 
are 
discharged 
or 
cancelled or expire.
 
 The group also derecognises a financial liability when 
its terms are modified and the cash flows under the 
modified terms are substantially different. In this case, 
a new financial liability based on the modified terms is 
recognised at fair value. The difference between the 
carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished 
and the new financial liability with modified terms is 
recognised in profit or loss.
 
Offsetting
 
 Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount presented in the balance sheet 
when, and only when, the group currently has a legally 
enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends 
either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
(d) Impairment
 
(i) 
Impairment of financial asset
 
 
 The Group recognises loss allowances for 
expected 
credit 
loss 
on 
financial 
assets 
measured at amortised cost, trade receivables, 
other contractual rights to receive cash or other 
financial assets and financial guarantee not 
designated as FVTPL.
 
 
 The Group measures loss allowances at an 
amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses, 
except for the following, which are measured as 
12 month expected credit losses:
 
 
 bank balances for which credit risk (i.e. 
the risk of default occurring over the expected 
life of the financial instrument) has not increased 
significantly since initial recognition.
 
 
 Loss allowances for trade receivables are 
always measured at an amount equal to lifetime 
expected credit losses. Lifetime expected 
credit losses are the expected credit losses that 
result from all possible default events over the 
expected life of a financial instrument. The Group 
follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of 
impairment loss allowance for trade receivables. 
The application of simplified approach does not 
require the Group to track changes in credit risk. 
Rather, it recognizes impairment loss allowance 
based on lifetime expected credit loss at each 
reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
 
 
 12-month expected credit losses are the portion 
of expected credit losses that result from default 
events that are possible within 12 months after the 
reporting date (or a shorter period if the expected 
life of the instrument is less than 12 months).
 
 
 In all cases, the maximum period considered 
when estimating expected credit losses is the 
maximum contractual period over which the 
group is exposed to credit risk.
 
 
 When determining whether the credit risk of a 
financial asset has increased significantly since 
initial recognition and when estimating expected 
credit losses, the Group considers reasonable 
and supportable information that is relevant and 
available without undue cost or effort. This includes 
both quantitative and qualitative information 
and analysis, based on the Entity’s historical 
experience and informed credit assessment and 
including forward- looking information.
 
(ii) Impairment of non-financial assets
 
 
 The Entity’s non-financial assets, other than 
inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed 
at each reporting date to determine whether 
there is any indication of impairment. If any such 
indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated.
 
 
 For impairment testing, assets that do not 
generate independent cash inflows are grouped 
together into cash-generating units (CGUs). 
Each CGU represents the smallest group of 
assets that generates cash inflows that are 
largely independent of the cash inflows of other 
assets or CGUs.
Eureka Forbes Limited
264
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 
 The recoverable amount of a CGU (or an individual 
asset) is the higher of its value in use and its fair 
value less costs to sell. Value in use is based on 
the estimated future cash flows, discounted to 
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the 
CGU (or the asset).
 
 
 The Entity’s corporate assets do not generate 
independent 
cash 
inflows. 
To 
determine 
impairment of a corporate asset, recoverable 
amount is determined for the CGUs to which the 
corporate asset belongs.
 
 
 An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying 
amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its estimated 
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
Impairment loss recognised in respect of a CGU 
is allocated to the CGU, and then to reduce the 
carrying amounts of the other assets of the CGU 
(or group of CGUs) on a pro rata basis.
 
 
 An impairment loss in respect of assets other 
than goodwill for which impairment loss has 
been recognised in prior periods, the Entity 
reviews at each reporting date whether there is 
any indication that the loss has decreased or no 
longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if 
there has been a change in the estimates used 
to determine the recoverable amount. Such a 
reversal is made only to the extent that the asset’s 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined, net 
of depreciation or amortization, if no impairment 
loss had been recognised.
(e) Cash and cash equivalents
 
 For the purpose of presentation in the statement of 
cash flow, cash and cash equivalents including cash 
on hand, deposits held at call with financial institutions, 
other short term, highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash and which are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current 
liabilities in the balance sheet and are not considered 
as integral part of Group’s cash management.
(f) 
Inventories
 
 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net 
realisable value. The cost of inventories is based 
on the weighted average method, and includes 
expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and 
other costs incurred in bringing them to their present 
location and condition.
 
 Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in 
the ordinary course of business, less the estimated 
costs of completion and selling expenses.
 
 The Net realisable value of work-in-progress is 
determined with reference to the selling prices of 
related finished products.
 
 Raw Materials and other supplies held for use in the 
production of finished products are not written down 
below cost except in cases where material prices have 
declined and it is estimated that the cost of the finished 
products will exceed their net realisable value.
(g) Property plant and equipment
 
 Freehold land is carried at historical cost. All other 
items of property, plant and equipment are stated 
at historical cost less depreciation. Historical cost 
includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the items.
 
 Property, plant and equipment acquired in a business 
combination are recognised at fair value at the 
acquisition date.
 
 Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it is 
probable that the future economic benefits associated 
with the expenditure will flow to the group.
 
 Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives and 
residual value
 
 Depreciation has been provided on the straight-line 
method as per the useful life prescribed in Schedule 
II to the Companies Act, 2013 except in respect of the 
following categories of assets, in whose case the life 
of the assets has been assessed as under based on 
technical advice, taking into account the nature of the 
asset, the estimated usage of the asset, the operating 
conditions of the asset, past history of replacement, 
anticipated technological changes etc.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
265
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 The estimated useful lives of property, plant and 
equipment for the current and comparative periods 
(as applicable) are as follows –
 
In the case of Indian Entities
Type of Assets
Period
Plant & Machinery for cleaning 
services
5 years
Plant & Machinery on rent
6 years
Motor Cycles
3 years
Motor Cars
5 years
Office Equipments
3 to 5 years
 
In the case of Foreign Entities
Type of Assets
Period
Vehicles
5 years
Furniture and Office Equipments
2 to 5 years
(h) Goodwill and other Intangible assets
 
 Intangible assets are initially measured at cost. 
Such intangible assets are subsequently measured 
at cost less accumulated amortization and any 
accumulated impairment losses.
 
 An intangible asset arising from development (or 
from the development phase of an internal project) 
is recognised if, and only if, all of the following have 
been demonstrated:
 
(i) 
 the technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for use;
 
(ii) 
 the 
intention 
to 
complete 
the 
intangible 
asset and use;
 
(iii) the ability to use the intangible asset;
 
(iv)  how the intangible asset will generate probable 
future economic benefits;
 
(v)  the availability of adequate technical, financial 
and other resources to complete the development 
and to use the intangible asset; and
 
(vi)  the ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during 
its development.
 
 The amount initially recognised for intangible assets 
is the sum of the expenditure incurred from the date 
when the intangible asset first meets the recognition 
criteria listed above. Where no intangible asset can be 
recognised, development expenditure is recognised 
in profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.
 
Amortization
 
 Intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Subsequently, intangible assets are carried at cost 
less any accumulated amortization and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any.
 
 The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed 
as finite or indefinite. Finite-life intangible asset are 
amortised on a Straight line basis over the period of 
their estimated useful lives. Estimated useful lives by 
major class of finite life intangible assets are as follow:
Type of Assets
Period
Technical Knowhow
5 years
Computer Software
5 years
Distributor network – Service
10 years
Distributor network - Product
10 years
 
 Amortization method, useful lives and residual values 
are reviewed at the end of each financial year and 
adjusted if appropriate.
 
 Indefinite - life intangible assets comprises of Brand 
Name / Trademarks for which there is no foreseeable 
Limit to the period over which they are expected to 
generate net cash inflows. These are considered to 
have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability 
of the brands and the level of marketing support.
 
 For Indefinite life intangible assets, the assessment 
of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine 
whether it continues, if not, it is impaired or changed 
prospectively basis revised estimates.
 
 Goodwill is initially recognised based on the 
accounting policy for Business combination and is 
tested for impairment annually.
(i) 
Employee Benefits
 
Short Term employee benefits
 
 Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured 
on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the 
related service is provided. A liability is recognised for 
the amount expected to be paid e.g., under short-term 
cash bonus, if the group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result 
Eureka Forbes Limited
266
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
of past service provided by the employee, and the 
amount of obligation can be estimated reliably.
 
Defined Contribution Plans
 
 Defined contribution plans are employee state 
insurance scheme and Government administered 
pension fund scheme for all applicable employees 
and superannuation scheme for eligible employees. 
The group’s contribution to defined contribution plans 
are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss in 
the consolidated financial year to which they relate.
 
 The company makes specified monthly contributions 
towards Employee Provident Fund scheme to a 
separate trust administered by the Company / 
deposited to EPFO . The minimum interest payable 
by the trust to the beneficiaries is being notified 
by the Government every year. The Company has 
an obligation to make good the shortfall, if any, 
between the return on investments of the trust and the 
notified interest rate.
 
Defined Benefit Plans
 
Gratuity Scheme
 
 The Group operates a defined benefit gratuity plan 
for employees. The Group contributes to a separate 
trust administered by the Group towards meeting the 
Gratuity obligation. The Group’s liability is determined 
on the basis of an actuarial valuation. Remeasurements 
of the net defined benefit liability as per the actuarial 
valuation report, which comprise actuarial gains and 
losses are recognised in OCI.
 
In the case of certain Indian Subsidiaries
 
 In case of certain Indian Subsidiaries, the gratuity 
liability is unfunded. The group accounts for gratuity 
benefits payable in future based on the calculation 
performed annually by a qualified actuary using the 
projected unit credit method at the end of the year. 
Actuarial Gains and Losses are recognized in OCI.
 
Other long term employee benefits
 
 Entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they 
accrue to employees. The Group determines the liability 
for such accumulated leaves using the Projected 
Accrued Benefit method with actuarial valuations 
being carried out at each Balance Sheet date.
 
 There are other Group companies that have internal 
or external pension plans. However, these plans are 
not material for the Group and therefore no further 
information is disclosed.
 
 Since the above pension plans are operated as per the 
laws of respective countries, no adjustment has been 
carried out for differences if any with Indian GAAP as 
the same is considered to be immaterial.
(j) 
Employee stock option scheme policy
 
 Employees of the Group receive remuneration in the 
form of share-based payments, whereby employees 
render services in exchange for equity instruments 
(equity-settled transactions).
 
Equity-settled transactions
 
 The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined 
by the fair value at the date when the grant is made 
using an appropriate valuation model. That cost is 
recognised in employee benefits expense (Note 27), 
together with a corresponding increase in equity, over 
the period in which the service and, where applicable, 
the performance conditions are fulfilled (the vesting 
period). The cumulative expense recognised for 
equity-settled transactions at each reporting date 
until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired and are the Group’s best 
estimate of the number of equity instruments that will 
ultimately vest. The expense or credit in the statement 
of profit or loss for a period represents the movement 
in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning 
and end of that period.
 
 Service and non-market performance conditions are 
not taken into account when determining the grant date 
fair value of awards, but the likelihood of the conditions 
being met is assessed as part of the Group’s best 
estimate of the number of equity instruments that will 
ultimately vest. Market performance conditions are 
reflected within the grant date fair value. Any other 
conditions attached to an award, but without an 
associated service requirement, are considered to be 
non-vesting conditions. Non-vesting conditions are 
reflected in the fair value of an award and lead to an 
immediate expensing of an award unless there are also 
service and/or performance conditions. No expense 
is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest 
because non-market performance and/or service 
conditions have not been met. Where awards include 
a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions are 
treated as vested irrespective of whether the market or 
non vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other 
performance and/or service conditions are satisfied.
 
 When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, 
the minimum expense recognised is the grant date fair 
value of the unmodified award, provided the original 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
267
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
vesting terms of the award are met. An additional 
expense, measured as at the date of modification, is 
recognised for any modification that increases the total 
fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or 
is otherwise beneficial to the employee. Where an 
award is cancelled by the entity or by the counterparty, 
any remaining element of the fair value of the award 
is expensed immediately through profit or loss. 
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected 
as additional share dilution in the computation of 
diluted earnings per share (refer Note 32).
(k) Research and Development
 
 Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an 
expense in the period in which it is incurred.
 
 An internally-generated intangible asset arising from 
development (or from the development phase of an 
internal project) is recognised if, and only if, all of the 
following conditions have been demonstrated:
 
• 
 the technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available 
for use or sale;
 
•  
 the intention to complete the intangible asset and 
use or sell it;
 
•  
 the ability to use or sell the intangible asset;
 
•  
 how the intangible asset will generate probable 
future economic benefits;
 
•  
 the availability of adequate technical, financial 
and other resources to complete the development 
and to use or sell the intangible asset; and
 
•  
 the ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during 
its development.
 
 The amount initially recognised for internally-generated 
intangible assets is the sum of the expenditure 
incurred from the date when the intangible asset 
first meets the recognition criteria listed above. 
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be 
recognised, development expenditure is recognised 
in profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.
 
 Subsequent to initial recognition, internally-generated 
intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, 
on the same basis as intangible assets that are 
acquired separately.
(l) 
Lease Accounting
 
 Ind AS 116 sets out principles for the recognition, 
measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. 
Ind AS 116 introduces a single lessee accounting 
model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and 
liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 
months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. 
For all leases except as noted above, a lessee is 
required to recognise a right-of-use asset (ROU Asset) 
representing its right to use the underlying leased 
asset and a lease liability representing its obligation 
to make lease payments in the balance sheet. 
Lessee will recognise depreciation of right-of-use 
assets and interest on lease liabilities in the statement 
of profit and loss.
 
(i) 
The Group as a lessee
 
 
 The Group’s lease asset classes primarily consist 
of leases for Premises. The group assesses 
whether a contract contains a lease, at inception 
of a contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease 
if the contract conveys the right to control the 
use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration. To assess whether a 
contract conveys the right to control the use of 
an identified asset, the group assesses whether: 
(1) the contract involves the use of an identified 
asset (2) the group has substantially all of the 
economic benefits from use of the asset through 
the period of the lease and (3) the group has the 
right to direct the use of the asset.
 
 
 At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Group recognizes a right-of-use asset (“ROU”) 
and a corresponding lease liability for all lease 
arrangements in which it is a lessee, except 
for leases with a term of twelve months or less 
(short-term leases) and low value leases. 
For these short-term and low value leases, the 
Group recognizes the lease payments as an 
operating expense on a straight-line basis over 
the term of the lease. The lease payments are 
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the 
lease or, if not readily determinable, using the 
incremental borrowing rates in the country of 
domicile of these leases.
 
 
 The lease payments that are not paid at the 
commencement date are discounted using 
the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate 
cannot be readily determined, which is generally 
the case for leases in the Group, the lessee’s 
incremental borrowing rate is used, being the 
Eureka Forbes Limited
268
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
rate that the individual lessee would have to 
pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an 
asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a 
similar economic environment with similar terms, 
security and conditions.
 
 
 Lease payments included in the measurement of 
the lease liability comprise:
 
 
•  
 Fixed 
lease 
payments 
(including 
in-substance 
fixed 
payments) 
payable 
during the lease term and under reasonably 
certain 
extension 
options, 
less 
any 
lease incentives;
 
 
•  
 Variable lease payments that depend on an 
index or rate, initially measured using the 
index or rate at the commencement date;
 
 
•  
 The amount expected to be payable by the 
lessee under residual value guarantees;
 
 
•  
 The exercise price of purchase options, if 
the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise 
the options; and
 
 
•  
 Payments of penalties for terminating the 
lease, if the lease term reflects the exercise 
of an option to terminate the lease.
 
 
 As a practical expedient, Ind AS 116 permits a 
lessee not to separate non-lease components 
when bifurcation of the payments is not available 
between the two components, and instead 
account for any lease and associated non-lease 
components as a single arrangement. The Group 
has used this practical expedient. Contingent and 
variable rentals are recognized as expense in the 
periods in which they are incurred.
 
 
 The lease liability is subsequently measured by 
increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest 
on the lease liability (using the effective interest 
method) and by reducing the carrying amount to 
reflect the lease payments made.
 
 
 The Group remeasures the lease liability (and 
makes a corresponding adjustment to the related 
right-of-use asset) whenever:
 
 
•  
 The lease term has changed or there is 
a change in the assessment of exercise 
of a purchase option, in which case the 
lease liability is remeasured by discounting 
the revised lease payments using a 
revised discount rate.
 
 
•  
 A lease contract is modified and the lease 
modification is not accounted for as a 
separate lease, in which case the lease 
liability is remeasured by discounting 
the revised lease payments using a 
revised discount rate.
 
 
 The right-of-use assets are initially recognized at 
cost, which comprises the initial amount of the 
lease liability adjusted for any lease payments 
made at or prior to the commencement date 
of the lease plus any initial direct costs less 
any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses. Whenever the Company 
incurs an obligation for costs to dismantle and 
remove a leased asset, restore the site on which 
it is located or restore the underlying asset to the 
condition required by the terms and conditions of 
the lease, a provision is recognised and measured 
under Ind AS 37. The costs are included in the 
related right-of-use asset, unless those costs are 
incurred to produce inventories.
 
 
 Right-of-use assets are depreciated from the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and useful life 
of the underlying asset. Right of use assets are 
evaluated for recoverability whenever events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that their 
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable 
amount (i.e. the higher of the fair value less cost 
to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an 
individual asset basis unless the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are largely independent 
of those from other assets. In such cases, the 
recoverable amount is determined for the Cash 
Generating Unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
 
 
 The Group has entered into lease arrangements 
as a lessee for premises for operating customer 
relationship centre, guest houses, head office 
and regional offices, residential premises for 
their employees so as to help the employees to 
get settled to new location and warehouse for 
receiving, storing and dispatch of goods and 
vehicles. The average term of leases entered into 
is 3 years. Incase of warehouses, on the basis 
of past practice the entire period of the contract 
has been considered for lease term depending 
on the reasonable certainty to continue with the 
same service provider. Generally, these lease 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
269
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
contracts do not include extension or early 
termination options.
 
 
 Extension and termination options are included 
in many of the leases. In determining the lease 
term the management considers all facts and 
circumstances that create an economic incentive 
to exercise an extension option, or not exercise a 
termination option.
 
 
 Lease liability and ROU asset have been 
separately presented in the Balance Sheet 
and lease payments have been classified as 
financing cash flows.
 
 
 The 
aggregate 
depreciation 
expense 
on 
ROU assets is included under depreciation 
and amortization expense in the statement of 
Profit and Loss.
 
(ii) The Group as a lessor
 
 
 Leases for which the Group is a lessor is classified 
as a finance or operating lease. Whenever the 
terms of the lease transfer substantially all the 
risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the 
contract is classified as a finance lease. All other 
leases are classified as operating leases. Ind AS 
116 does not change substantially how a lessor 
accounts for leases. Under Ind AS 116, a lessor 
continues to classify leases as either finance 
leases or operating leases and account for those 
two types of leases differently. However, Ind AS 
116 has changed and expanded the disclosures 
required, in particular with regard to how a lessor 
manages the risks arising from its residual interest 
in leased assets.
 
 
 When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it 
accounts for its interests in the head lease and the 
sublease separately. The sublease is classified 
as a finance or operating lease by reference to 
the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease.
 
 
 For operating leases, rental income is recognized 
on a straight line basis over the term of the 
relevant lease.
(m) Revenue Recognition
 
 The Group derives Revenue from sale of products 
primarily water purifiers and vacuum cleaners and 
providing related maintenance services. Revenue from 
sale of goods is recognised when control of the 
products being sold has transferred to the customer 
upon delivery. Revenue is measured net of taxes, 
returns, discounts, incentives and rebates earned by 
customers on the sales. Revenue from services are 
recognised over the period of time.
 
 A refund liability (included in other current liabilities) is 
recognised for expected volume discounts payable to 
customers in relation to sales made until the end of the 
reporting period.
 
 In relation to certain contracts where installation 
services are provided by the group, same is 
accounted as a separate performance obligation. 
Payment of the transaction price is due immediately 
when the customer purchases the goods/services 
except in certain cases where a credit term is agreed 
between group and customers.
 
 Revenue is only recognised to the extent that it is 
highly probable a significant reversal will not occur. 
An estimate is made for goods that will be returned 
and a liability has been recognised for this amount 
as refund liability (included in other current liabilities). 
An asset has also been recorded (included in other 
current assets) for the corresponding inventory that is 
estimated to return to the group using a best estimate 
based on accumulated experience.
 
 Group’s obligation to repair or replace faulty 
products under the standard warranty terms is 
recognised as provision.
 
 Dividend income is recognised when the right to 
receive payment is established and known.
 
 Interest income from financial asset is recognised 
when it is probable that the economic benefit will flow 
to the company and the amount of income can be 
measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on time 
basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at 
the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate 
that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts 
through the expected life of the financial asset to that 
asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.
(n) Taxation
 
 Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. It is 
recognised in profit & loss except to the extent that 
it relates to a business combination or to an item 
recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive 
income, in which the current and the deferred tax 
is also recognised directly in equity or in other 
comprehensive income.
Eureka Forbes Limited
270
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
Current Tax
 
 Current tax is measured on the basis of estimated 
income and tax credits computed in accordance with 
the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
 
 Current tax assets and current tax liabilities are offset 
only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off 
the recognised amounts, and it is intended to realise 
the asset and settle the liability on a net basis or 
simultaneously.
 
 Management periodically evaluates positions taken in 
tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable 
tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes 
provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts 
expected to be paid to tax authorities. Also refer Note 
33A for Uncertain Tax Position.
 
 The entity shall recognise the income tax consequences 
of dividends in profit or loss, other comprehensive 
income or equity according to where the entity originally 
recognised those past transactions or events.
 
Deferred Tax
 
 Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
corresponding amounts used for taxation purposes. 
Deferred tax liability are generally recognised for all 
taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax asset 
(including in respect of carried forward tax losses and 
tax credits) are recognised to the extent it is probable 
that the taxable profit will be available against which 
deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
 
 Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply to the period when the asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on the laws 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the reporting date.
 
Uncertain Tax position
 
 Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in the tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation 
and 
establishes 
provisions 
where 
appropriate. 
The provision is estimated based on one of two 
methods, the expected value method (the sum of the 
probability weighted amounts in a range of possible 
outcomes) or the single most likely amount method, 
depending on which is expected to better predict the 
resolution of the uncertainty.
(o) Earnings Per Share
 
 The group presents basic and diluted earnings per 
share (EPS) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is 
calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to 
ordinary shareholders of the group by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during 
the period. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting 
the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 
and the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding after adjusting for the effects of all potential 
dilutive ordinary shares.
(p) Provisions and Contingencies
 
 A provision is recognized if, as a result of a past event, 
the Company has a present legal or constructive 
obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is 
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation.
 
 The amount recognised as provision is the best 
estimate of the consideration required to settle 
the present obligation at the end of the reporting 
period taking into account the risk and uncertainties 
surrounding the obligation. When a provision is 
measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the 
present obligation its carrying amount is the present 
value of those cash flows (where the effect of the time 
value of money is material).
 
 Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that arise 
from past events and whose existence will only be 
confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one 
or more future events not wholly within the control of the 
Company. Contingent Liabilities are not recognised in 
the financial statements but are disclosed in the notes.
 
 Contingent assets are disclosed where inflow of 
economic benefit is probable.
(q) Goodwill On Consolidation
 
 Goodwill is deemed to have an indefinite useful life 
and is reported at acquisition value with deduction 
for accumulated impairments. Goodwill is tested for 
impairment on an annual basis and whenever there is 
an indication that the recoverable amount of a cash 
generating unit is less than its carrying amount based 
on a number of factors including operating results, 
business plans, future cash flows and economic 
conditions. The recoverable amount of cash generating 
units is determined based on higher of value-in-use 
and fair value less cost to sell. The goodwill impairment 
test is performed at the level of the cash generating 
unit or groups of cash-generating units which are 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
271
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
benefitting from the synergies of the acquisition and 
which represents the lowest level at which goodwill is 
monitored for internal management purposes.
 
 Market related information and estimates are used to 
determine the recoverable amount. Key assumptions 
on which management has based its determination of 
recoverable amount include estimated long term growth 
rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimated 
operating margins. Cash flow projections take into 
account past experience and represent management’s 
best estimate about future developments.
(r) 
Borrowing Cost
 
 Borrowing 
Cost 
includes 
interest, 
amortization 
of ancillary cost incurred in connection with the 
arrangement of borrowings and exchange difference 
arising from foreign currency borrowings to the extent 
they are regarded as an adjustment to the interest cost.
 
 Borrowing cost, if any, directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of an asset 
that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to 
get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised, 
if any. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the 
period in which they occur.
(s) Segment Reporting
 
 Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Board of Directors 
of the respective group companies assess the financial 
performance and position of the Group and makes 
strategic decisions. The Board of Directors, which 
have been identified as being the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker, consists of the key managerial 
personnel and the directors who are in charge of the 
corporate planning. Transfer prices between operating 
segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner 
similar to transactions with third parties.
(t) 
Recent Pronouncements
 
 Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards 
under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules as issued from time to time. For the year ended 
March 31, 2025, MCA has not notified any new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards 
applicable to the Group.
Eureka Forbes Limited
272
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 3: Property, plant and equipment
 ` in Lakhs 
Gross Block 
 (refer note (a))
 Freehold 
Land 
 (refer note 
(b)) 
 Buildings 
(refer note 
(b)) 
 Plant and 
Machinery 
 (refer note 
(c)) 
 Assets-on 
lease 
 (refer note 
(d)) 
 Electrical 
Installation 
& 
Equipment 
Laboratory 
Equipment 
 Office 
Equipment 
 Furniture 
and 
Fixtures 
 Vehicles Computers 
 Total 
As at 01 April 2023
 6,405.00 
 14,813.25 
 5,270.73 
 7.19 
 266.44 
 126.07 
 93.49 
 251.23  1,138.00 
 807.78  29,179.18 
Additions
 - 
 99.10 
 1,434.94 
 - 
 31.65 
 13.29 
 36.90 
 68.20 
 24.59 
 255.72 
 1,964.39 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 (174.12)
 - 
 (18.95)
 (26.78)
 (16.03)
 (28.61)
 (163.53)
 (77.63)
 (505.65)
As at March 31, 2024
 6,405.00 
 14,912.35 
 6,531.55 
 7.19 
 279.14 
 112.58 
 114.36 
 290.82 
 999.06 
 985.87  30,637.92 
Additions
 - 
 170.76 
 734.49 
 - 
 35.80 
 87.12 
 125.12 
 1,284.10 
 16.16 
 649.18 
 3,102.73 
Deletions
 - 
 (0.06)
 (88.58)
 - 
 (35.31)
 (1.15)
 (14.24)
 (37.73)
 (374.32)
 (35.36)
 (586.75)
As at March 31, 2025
 6,405.00 
 15,083.05 
 7,177.46 
 7.19 
 279.63 
 198.55 
 225.24 
 1,537.19 
 640.90 
 1,599.69  33,153.90 
Depreciation
As at 01 April 2023
 - 
 513.45 
 623.00 
 0.90 
 40.63 
 26.28 
 33.70 
 52.38 
 277.31 
 315.05 
 1,882.70 
Charge for the year
 - 
 444.88 
 539.38 
 1.14 
 35.43 
 21.72 
 20.83 
 37.62 
 252.92 
 267.96 
 1,621.88 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 (82.80)
 - 
 (4.32)
 (9.32)
 (11.34)
 (18.07)
 (79.21)
 (22.08)
 (227.14)
As at March 31, 2024
 - 
 958.33 
 1,079.58 
 2.04 
 71.74 
 38.68 
 43.19 
 71.93 
 451.02 
 560.93 
 3,277.44 
Additions
 - 
 450.33 
 549.49 
 1.14 
 30.99 
 21.60 
 37.01 
 204.30 
 154.58 
 237.57 
 1,687.01 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 (49.95)
 - 
 (11.70)
 (0.60)
 (9.09)
 (12.15)
 (234.27)
 (11.57)
 (329.33)
As at March 31, 2025
 - 
 1,408.66 
 1,579.12 
 3.18 
 91.03 
 59.68 
 71.11 
 264.08 
 371.33 
 786.93 
 4,635.12 
Net Block
As at March 31, 2024
 6,405.00 
 13,954.02 
 5,451.97 
 5.15 
 207.40 
 73.90 
 71.17 
 218.89 
 548.04 
 424.94  27,360.48 
As at March 31, 2025
 6,405.00 
 13,674.39 
 5,598.34 
 4.01 
 188.60 
 138.87 
 154.13 
 1,273.11 
 269.57 
 812.76  28,518.78 
Notes:
a.  
Refer Note 42 for assets pledged as security.
b.  
 The Title Deeds in respect of freehold land and buildings which has been acquired in business combination, are held in the name of erstwhile Eureka Forbes Limited. The company 
is in the process of transferring the above freehold land and Buildings in its own name.
c.  
Includes moulds given on Lease has a useful life of 15 years and depreciated accordingly.
d.  
Assets given on Lease have a useful life of 6 years and depreciated accordingly.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
273
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 4: Right of Use Assets
 ` in Lakhs 
 Gross Block
 Leasehold 
land# 
 ROU Assets 
- Buildings 
 Total 
As at 01 April 2023
 345.01 
 2,939.19 
 3,284.20 
Additions
 - 
 549.50 
 549.50 
Deletions
 - 
 (246.76)
 (246.76)
As at March 31, 2024
 345.01 
 3,241.93 
 3,586.94 
Additions
 - 
 2,453.48 
 2,453.48 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 345.01 
 5,695.41 
 6,040.42 
Depreciation
As at 01 April 2023
 6.16 
 1,157.05 
 1,163.21 
Charge for the year
 5.30 
 1,248.55 
 1,253.85 
Deletions
 - 
 (159.02)
 (159.02)
Adjustments
 - 
 (265.89)
 (265.89)
As at March 31, 2024
 11.46 
 1,980.69 
 1,992.15 
Charge for the year
 5.30 
 1,378.43 
 1,383.73 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
Adjustments
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 16.76 
 3,359.12 
 3,375.88 
Net Block
As at March 31, 2024
 333.55 
 1,261.24 
 1,594.79 
As at March 31, 2025
 328.25 
 2,336.29 
 2,664.54 
# Refer Note 42 for assets pledged as security.
Note 5a: Goodwill
 ` in Lakhs 
 Gross Block
 Goodwill on business 
Combination 
 Total 
As at 01 April 2023
 2,05,581.67 
 2,05,581.67 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 2,05,581.67 
 2,05,581.67 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 2,05,581.67 
 2,05,581.67 
Impairment 
As at 01 April 2023
 - 
 - 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 - 
 - 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 - 
 - 
Net Block
As at March 31, 2024
 2,05,581.67 
 2,05,581.67 
As at March 31, 2025
 2,05,581.67 
 2,05,581.67 
Refer Note 33S for Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life.
Eureka Forbes Limited
274
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 5b: Goodwill on Consolidation
 ` in Lakhs 
 Gross Block
 Goodwill on 
Consolidation 
 Total 
As at 01 April 2023
 299.46 
 299.46 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 299.46 
 299.46 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 299.46 
 299.46 
Impairment
As at 01 April 2023
 - 
 - 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 - 
 - 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 - 
 - 
Net Block
As at March 31, 2024
 299.46 
 299.46 
As at March 31, 2025
 299.46 
 299.46 
Note 6a: Other Intangible Assets
 ` in Lakhs 
Gross Block
 Computer 
Software 
 Distributor 
network-Service 
 Distributor 
network-Product 
 Technical 
Knowhow 
 Brand Name 
/ Trademarks 
 Total 
As at 01 April 2023
 126.74 
 20,557.83 
 3,966.24 
 19.79 
 2,91,119.26  3,15,789.86 
Additions
 1,194.13 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,194.13 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 1,320.87 
 20,557.83 
 3,966.24 
 19.79 
 2,91,119.26  3,16,983.99 
Additions
 1,341.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,341.66 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 2,662.53 
 20,557.83 
 3,966.24 
 19.79 
 2,91,119.26  3,18,325.65 
Depreciation
As at 01 April 2023
 121.03 
 2,398.41 
 462.72 
 19.79 
 - 
 3,001.95 
Charge for the year
 74.57 
 2,055.78 
 396.62 
 - 
 - 
 2,526.97 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 195.60 
 4,454.19 
 859.34 
 19.79 
 - 
 5,528.92 
Charge for the year
 273.87 
 2,055.78 
 396.62 
 - 
 - 
 2,726.27 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 469.47 
 6,509.97 
 1,255.96 
 19.79 
 - 
 8,255.19 
Net Block
As at March 31, 2024
 1,125.27 
 16,103.64 
 3,106.90 
 - 
 2,91,119.26  3,11,455.07 
As at March 31, 2025
 2,193.06 
 14,047.86 
 2,710.28 
 - 
 2,91,119.26  3,10,070.46 
Notes:
Refer Note 33S for Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
275
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 6b: Intangible Assets Under Development
 ` in Lakhs 
Movement of Intangible Assets Under Development
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Opening balance
 122.19 
 245.93 
Add: Additions during the year
 916.85 
 598.71 
Less: Expensed out during the year
 (29.12)
 - 
Less: Capitalized during the year
 (817.85)
 (722.45)
Closing balance
 192.07 
 122.19 
 ` in Lakhs 
Amount of intangible assets under development for 
a period of
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Projects in 
progress
Projects 
temporarily 
suspended
Projects in 
progress
Projects 
temporarily 
suspended
Less than 1 year
 192.07 
 - 
 122.19 
 - 
1-2 years
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 192.07 
 - 
 122.19 
 - 
Note 7: Investments
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Non-current Investments
Unquoted Investments (all fully paid up)
Investments in Equity Instruments - Other Companies
14,286 (March 31, 2024: 14,286) equity shares of ` 10 fully paid up in 
Water Quality Association (Refer Note below)
 1.42 
 1.42 
Total Unquoted Investments at cost
 1.42 
 1.42 
Total Non-current Investment 
 1.42 
 1.42 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments and market value thereof
 1.42 
 1.42 
Note: The Group has invested in 14,286 shares of face value ` 10 each in a non profit making organisation hence the fair 
value has been considered same as the carrying value.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current Investments
Unquoted Investments in Mutual Funds
Nippon India Liquid Fund - Growth Plan Growth Option: 55,815.86 units 
(March 31, 2024: 55,815.86 units)
 3,498.95 
 3,261.68 
Tata Liquid Fund - Regular Plan - Growth: 59,228.91 units (March 31, 
2024: 59,228.91 units)
 2,395.99 
 2,233.16 
Total Current Investment 
 5,894.94 
 5,494.84 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments and market value thereof
 5,894.94 
 5,494.84 
Eureka Forbes Limited
276
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 8: Trade Receivables
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Non-current Trade Receivables
Unsecured, credit impaired
 361.75 
 361.75 
Less: Allowance for doubtful debts
 (361.75)
 (361.75)
Total Non-current Trade Receivables
 - 
 - 
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current Trade Receivables
Unsecured, considered good
 18,084.12 
 13,751.84 
Unsecured, credit impaired from related parties (Refer Note 34)
 703.93 
 878.72 
Less: Allowance for doubtful debts
 (776.50)
 (878.72)
Total Current Trade Receivables
 18,011.55 
 13,751.84 
Ageing for trade receivables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2025:
 ` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment 
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Credit impaired
Disputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Disputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Not due
 11,163.93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Less than 6 months
 5,632.68 
 - 
 - 
 - 
6 months - 1 year
 925.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
1-2 years
 204.86 
 162.14 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 157.01 
 591.92 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 - 
 311.62 
 - 
 - 
Total (A)
 18,084.12 
 1,065.68 
 - 
 - 
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss (B)
 (72.57)
 (1,065.68)
 - 
 - 
Total [(A) - (B)]
 18,011.55 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Ageing for trade receivables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2024:
 ` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment 
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Credit impaired
Disputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Disputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Not due
 10,481.44 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Less than 6 months
 2,564.47 
 - 
 - 
 - 
6 months - 1 year
 501.03 
 56.67 
 - 
 - 
1-2 years
 130.36 
 272.22 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 74.11 
 93.34 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 0.43 
 818.24 
 - 
 - 
Total (A)
 13,751.84 
 1,240.47 
 - 
 - 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
277
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment 
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Credit impaired
Disputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Disputed Trade 
Receivables - 
Considered good
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss (B)"
 - 
 (1,240.47)
 - 
 - 
Total [(A) - (B)]
 13,751.84 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes:
a. The Group’s exposure to credit risk and loss allowances related to trade receivables are disclosed in Note 41.
b.  The Group uses simplified approach for trade receivable for calculating expected credit loss. Accordingly the Group does not track 
changes in credit risk of individual trade receivable.
c. Refer Note 42 for receivables pledged as security against borrowings.
Note 9: Loans
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current Loans
Loans to Employees
- 
Unsecured, considered good
 48.15 
 48.07 
Total Current Loans
 48.15 
 48.07 
Note 10: Other Financial Assets
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Other Non-current Financial Assets
Bank deposits with more than 12 months maturity 
 0.92 
 45.71 
Deposit with Banks held as Margin Money*
 863.33 
 801.63 
Security deposits - unsecured considered good
 727.66 
 421.11 
Total Other Non-current Financial Assets
 1,591.91 
 1,268.45 
Other Current Financial Assets
Security deposits - unsecured considered good
 61.19 
 90.70 
Total Other Current Financial Assets
 61.19 
 90.70 
* Includes a total amount of ` 90.64 Lakhs of deposits lodged as security with Government authorities.
Eureka Forbes Limited
278
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 11: Income tax assets and liabilities
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Income tax assets (Net)
Advance income-tax (net of Provision for Taxation)
 2,224.37 
 3,117.80 
Total Non-current Income tax assets
 2,224.37 
 3,117.80 
Income tax Liabilities (Net)
Provision for Taxation (net of Advance Tax)
 11,888.32 
 6,476.65 
Total Current Income tax liabilities
 11,888.32 
 6,476.65 
Note 12: Other Assets
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Other Non-current Assets
Unsecured considered good, unless stated otherwise
Capital Advances
 1,602.09 
 150.24 
Prepaid Expenses
 44.17 
 66.14 
Balance with government authorities
 1,097.66 
 1,063.03 
Total Other Non-current Assets
 2,743.92 
 1,279.41 
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Other Current Assets
Unsecured considered good, unless stated otherwise
Prepaid Expenses
 1,185.56 
 1,127.18 
Right to Recover Returned Goods (Refer Note (a) below)
 112.50 
 94.95 
Balance with government authorities
 2,063.79 
 2,933.43 
Advances recoverable in cash or kind
 1,940.88 
 2,167.39 
Advances recoverable in cash or kind - considered doubtful
 3,629.36 
 3,610.01 
 8,932.09 
 9,932.96 
Less: Provision for doubtful advances
 (3,629.36)
 (3,610.01)
Total Other Current Assets
 5,302.73 
 6,322.95 
Notes: 
a.  
 A return right gives the Group a contractual right to recover the goods from a customer (return assets), if the customer 
exercises his right to return the goods. The right to recover returned goods is accounted for the products that are 
expected to be returned.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
279
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 13: Inventories
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Inventories (lower of cost or net realisable value)
Raw Materials, Components and Packing Material (includes in transit  
` 2,511.76 lakhs (March 31, 2024: ` 1,790.15 lakhs))
 6,732.53 
 6,008.69 
Finished Goods (includes in transit: ` 108.34 lakhs (March 31, 2024:  
` 513.99 Lakhs))
 2,949.99 
 5,274.62 
Stock in Trade (includes in transit ` 868.95 lakhs (March 31, 2024:  
` 1,286.86 Lakhs))
 10,546.29 
 6,441.68 
Spares & Accessories (includes in transit: ` 50.16 lakhs (March 31, 
2024: ` 25.89 Lakhs))
 4,985.52 
 7,545.71 
Work-in-Progress
 75.13 
 - 
 25,289.46 
 25,270.70 
Refer Note 42 for inventories pledged as security against borrowing 
Note 14: Cash and cash equivalents and other bank balances
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and in banks. Cash and 
cash equivalents at the end of the reporting period as shown in the cash flows statement can be reconciled to the related 
items in the balance sheet as follows:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Balances with Banks in current accounts
 6,590.07 
 5,546.81 
Cheques, drafts on hand
 4.43 
 62.15 
Cash on hand
 - 
 95.63 
Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 Months 
 2,956.43 
 427.58 
Total Cash & cash equivalents
 9,550.93 
 6,132.17 
Bank Balances other than cash & cash equivalents
Deposits with original maturity of more than 12 months 
 9,073.08 
 7.47 
Deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months but less than  
12 months 
 6,541.51 
 3,615.03 
Total Bank Balances other than cash & cash equivalents
 15,614.59 
 3,622.50 
Cash and cash equivalents as per cash flow statement
 9,550.93 
 6,132.17 
Note 15: Equity Share Capital
Particulars
Number of shares
Share capital 
` in Lakhs
Authorised Share capital:
As at April 01, 2023
 25,00,00,000 
 25,000 
Increase during the year 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 25,00,00,000 
 25,000 
Increase during the year 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 25,00,00,000 
 25,000 
Eureka Forbes Limited
280
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Issued and subscribed capital comprises:
19,34,79,240 (Previous year: 19,34,79,240) fully paid equity shares of ` 
10 each
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92 
Movement in equity share capital:
 Number of shares 
Number of shares
As at April 01, 2023
 19,34,79,240 
 19,347.92 
Increase during the year 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 19,34,79,240 
 19,347.92 
Increase during the year 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 19,34,79,240 
 19,347.92 
a.  
 a. Fully paid equity shares have a par value of ` 10. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share with 
a right to receive per share dividend declared by the Company. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are 
entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company (after distribution of all preferential amounts) in the proportion of 
equity shares held by the shareholders.
b.  Details of shares held by the holding Group, the ultimate holding Group, their subsidiaries and associates:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Lunolux Limited, Cyprus (Holding Company)
 12,10,41,730 
 12,10,41,730 
Total as at the end of the year
 12,10,41,730 
 12,10,41,730 
c.  
Details of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Lunolux Limited, Cyprus
 12,10,41,730 
62.56%
 12,10,41,730 
62.56%
India Discovery Fund Limited
 - 
0.00%
 1,30,33,916 
6.74%
Total
 12,10,41,730 
62.56%
 13,40,75,646 
69.30%
d.  Details of shareholdings by the Promoters of the Group:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Fully paid equity shares
Lunolux Limited, Cyprus (Holding Company)
 12,10,41,730 
62.56%
 12,10,41,730 
62.56%
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
281
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
e.  
For the period of five years immediately preceding the date as at which the Balance Sheet is prepared:
 
i.  
 Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up pursuant to contract(s) without payment being 
received in cash:
 
 
 19,34,79,240 Equity shares of ` 10 each allotted as fully paid-up pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement approved 
by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal on January 25, 2022.
 
ii.  
Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares: Nil
 
iii.  Aggregate number and class of shares bought back: Nil
Note 16: Other equity
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Retained earnings
Balance at beginning of year
 11,290.47 
 1,963.88 
Add: Profit for the year
 16,440.09 
 9,563.86 
Other comprehensive loss arising from re-measurement of defined 
benefit obligation, net of tax
 (346.49)
 (237.27)
Balance at end of the year
 27,384.07 
 11,290.47 
Securities Premium
Balance at beginning of the year
 3,87,063.45 
 3,87,063.45 
Add: Addition during the year
 - 
 - 
Balance at end of the year
 3,87,063.45 
 3,87,063.45 
Capital reserve
Balance at beginning of the year
 1,413.14 
 1,413.14 
Add: Addition during the year
 - 
 - 
Balance at end of the year
 1,413.14 
 1,413.14 
Employee stock option scheme reserve 
Balance at beginning of the year
 3,448.76 
 - 
Add: Addition during the year (Refer Note 37)
 2,209.12 
 3,448.76 
Balance at end of the year
 5,657.88 
 3,448.76 
Forex Currency Translation Reserve
Balance at beginning of the year
 0.63 
 (23.95)
Add/(Less): Addition during the year
 1.65 
 24.58 
Balance at end of the year
 2.28 
 0.63 
Total Other Equity
 4,21,520.82 
 4,03,216.45 
Description of nature and purpose of reserves:
Retained Earnings
This reserve represents the cumulative profits of the Group and the effects of remeasurement of defined benefit obligations. 
The reserve can be utilised in accordance with the provision of the Companies Act, 2013.
Securities premium
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Eureka Forbes Limited
282
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Capital Reserve
The Capital reserve has been created on cancellation of shares held by then existing shareholders of the Group as per the 
composite scheme of arrangement approved by the national Group Law tribunal on January 25, 2022.
Employee stock option scheme reserve
The share-based payments reserve is used to recognise the value of equity settled share-based payments provided 
to employees, including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer to Note 37 for further details 
of these plans.
Forex Currency Translation Reserve
Exchange differences relating to the translation of the results and net assets of Group’s foreign operations from their 
functional currencies to the Group’s presentation currency (i.e. `) are recognised directly in other comprehensive income 
and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve. Gain and losses on derivatives that are designated as hedging 
instruments for hedges of net investments in foreign operations are included in the foreign currency translation reserve. 
Exchange differences previously accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve (in respect of translating both 
the net assets of foreign operations and hedges of foreign operations) are reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of 
foreign operations.
Note 17: Borrowings
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current Borrowings
Secured – at amortised cost
Term loans
Banks - Rupee Term loan (Refer Note (a) below)
 - 
 2,491.97 
Loans repayable on demand 
Banks - Cash credit/Buyers credit (Refer Note (b) to (c) below)
 - 
 - 
Total Current Borrowings
 - 
 2,491.97 
a.  
 Rupee Term loan (RTL) from ICICI Bank amounting to ` 10,000.00 lakhs (No Outstanding as on March 31, 2025 
(March 31, 2024: ` 2,500.00 lakhs)) carries interest rate of 1 year MCLR and secured against pari pasu charge on 
tangible assets (Excluding vehicles and two wheelers purchased under Employee Benefit Scheme).
b.   Secured Short term borrowing from Axis, ICICI, Kotak and CITI bank is secured by pari-passu charge on hypothecation 
of stock-in-trade and book debts and carries interest @ 8.65% p.a to 9.40% p.a. during FY 2024-25.
c.  
The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
Note 18: Trade payables
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 4,837.83 
 6,936.87 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises (Refer Note (a) below for dues to Micro and Small 
Enterprises)
 13,479.34 
 12,427.39 
Total Trade Payables
 18,317.17 
 19,364.26 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
283
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Ageing for trade payables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2025:
 ` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment 
Undisputed dues 
- MSME
Undisputed dues 
- Others
 Disputed dues 
- MSME 
Disputed dues 
- Others
Not due
 4,835.95 
 5,073.64 
 - 
 - 
Less than 1 year
 1.88 
 8,219.80 
 - 
 - 
1-2 years
 - 
 97.28 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 - 
 61.20 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 - 
 21.51 
 - 
 5.91 
Total 
 4,837.83 
 13,473.43 
 - 
 5.91 
Ageing for trade payables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2024:
 ` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment 
Undisputed dues 
- MSME
Undisputed dues 
- Others
 Disputed dues 
- MSME 
Disputed dues 
- Others
Not due
 6,934.68 
 9,588.75 
 - 
 - 
Less than 1 year
 2.19 
 2,631.75 
 - 
 - 
1-2 years
 - 
 164.47 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 - 
 22.08 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 - 
 14.43 
 - 
 5.91 
Total 
 6,936.87 
 12,421.48 
 - 
 5.91 
Note (a): Disclosures required under Section 22 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 under 
the Chapter on delayed payments to Micro and Small Enterprises:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
(i)   Principal amount remaining unpaid to MSME suppliers as on year end
 4,837.83 
 6,932.04 
(ii) 
 Interest due on unpaid principal amount to MSME suppliers 
as on year end
 - 
 4.83 
(iii)  The amount of interest paid along with the amounts of the payment 
made to the MSME suppliers beyond the appointed day 
 - 
 - 
(iv)  The amount of interest due and payable for the year (without adding 
the interest under MSME Development Act)
 - 
 - 
(v)  The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid as on year end
 - 
 4.83 
(vi)  The amount of interest due and payable to be disallowed under 
Income Tax Act, 1961
 - 
 4.83 
Eureka Forbes Limited
284
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 19: Other Financial Liabilities
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at 
March 31, 2024
Other Current Financial Liabilities
Interest free trade deposits
 4,909.51 
 5,141.53 
Others:
 
Dues to employees
 7,188.15 
 6,887.57 
 
 Dues on account of customer rebate schemes and other 
contractual liabilities
 7,964.98 
 6,387.21 
 
Unclaimed dividend
 0.01 
 0.01 
Total Other Current Financial Liabilities
 20,062.65 
 18,416.32 
Note 20: Lease liabilities
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Non-current Lease liabilities
 1,547.04 
 409.66 
Current Lease liabilities
 1,008.31 
 972.81 
Refer Note 35 for detailed components of Lease liabilities.
Note 21: Provisions
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Non-current Provisions
Employee benefits - compensated absences
 96.72 
 360.57 
Gratuity payable (Refer Note 36)
 21.41 
 17.10 
Total Non-current Provisions
 118.13 
 377.67 
Current Provisions
Employee benefits - compensated absences
 4.55 
 78.08 
Gratuity payable (Refer Note 36)
 541.77 
 385.04 
Other provisions
 
Warranties (Refer Note 33I - B)
 1,935.75 
 1,852.09 
 
Others (Refer Note 33I - A)
 51.25 
 51.25 
Total Current Provisions
 2,533.32 
 2,366.46 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
285
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 22: Other Liabilities
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Other Non-current Liabilities
Contract Liabilities - Income received in advance (Refer Note 33J)
 14,946.67 
 12,879.35 
Deductions from employees for Group's assets
 140.14 
 271.33 
Total Other Non-current Liabilities
 15,086.81 
 13,150.68 
Other Current Liabilities
Contract Liabilities - Income received in advance (Refer Note 33J)
 32,857.20 
 37,707.35 
Deductions from employees for Group's assets
 634.83 
 846.43 
Advance from customers
 3,301.08 
 1,901.67 
"Contract liabilities - Others (Refer Note (a) below )
 182.93 
 305.42 
Refund liabilities (Refer Note (b) below)
 2,897.82 
 2,567.28 
Statutory liabilities (Contributions to PF, pension, ESIC, withholding 
taxes, VAT, GST, PT, etc.)
 1,502.47 
 1,765.07 
Total Other Current Liabilities
 41,376.33 
 45,093.22 
Notes:
a:  
 Contract liability pertains to deferred revenue arising as a separate performance obligation. 
b:  
 The Group recognises a refund liability for the amount of consideration received when a customer has a right to return products within 
a given period. Refund liabilities also include amount recognised for various discounts and incentives payable to customers. 
Note 23: Deferred tax balances (net)
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
The following is the analysis of deferred tax (assets)/liabilities 
presented in the balance sheet:
Deferred tax assets (net)
 119.94 
 125.11 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 80,853.99 
 81,135.58 
Total Deferred tax balances (net)
 80,734.05 
 81,010.47 
Refer Note 43 for detailed components of Deferred taxes balances.
Note 24: Revenue from operations
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Sale of products
 1,81,702.75 
 1,56,808.88 
Sale of services
 60,532.81 
 61,558.96 
Other operating revenues
 
Scrap sales
 339.38 
 305.38 
 
Other
 1,116.49 
 251.80 
Total Revenue from operations
 2,43,691.43 
 2,18,925.02 
Eureka Forbes Limited
286
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 25: Other Income and other gains/ (losses)
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Other Income
Interest income earned on financial assets that are not designated 
as at fair value through profit or loss:
 
Bank deposits (at amortised cost)
 634.08 
 197.92 
 
Interest Others 
 87.68 
 8.20 
Others
 154.79 
 186.03 
Total (A)
 876.55 
 392.15 
Other gains/(losses) - net
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 153.41 
 60.13 
Gain on disposal of Investments at FVTPL
 - 
 47.68 
Net foreign exchange gains
 26.40 
 1.20 
Net gain arising on financial assets measured at FVTPL
 400.10 
 367.21 
Gain on modification/disposal of Right of use assets
 - 
 9.58 
Total (B)
 579.91 
 485.80 
Total Other Income and other gains (A+B)
 1,456.46 
 877.95 
Note 26: Cost of goods sold
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Raw Materials, Components and Packing Materials
Inventory at the beginning of the year
 6,008.68 
 5,127.47 
Add: Purchases
 92,390.71 
 83,009.90 
 98,399.39 
 88,137.37 
Less: Inventory at the end of the year
 (6,732.53)
 (6,008.68)
Less: Disclosed under Exceptional Item (Refer note 33T)
 (90.00)
Cost of Raw Materials, Components and Packing Materials consumed 
 91,576.86 
 82,128.68 
Purchases of stock-in-trade
 9,343.97 
 10,382.56 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, spares, stock-in-trade and 
work-in-progress 
 639.11 
 (2,386.37)
Less: Disclosed under exceptional item (Refer note 33T)
 (793.43)
 (1,268.93)
Total Changes in inventories of finished goods, spares, stock-in-
trade and work-in-progress 
 (154.32)
 (3,655.31)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
287
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Note 27: Employee benefits expense
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Salaries and Wages
 29,056.43 
 27,838.10 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 1,397.24 
 1,371.62 
Staff Welfare Expenses 
 385.71 
 321.60 
Employee stock option scheme (Refer Note 37)
 2,209.12 
 3,448.76 
Total Employee benefits expense
 33,048.50 
 32,980.08 
Note 28: Finance costs
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans
 252.04 
 759.78 
Interest on Lease Liabilities
 302.83 
 190.99 
Other borrowing costs
 8.03 
 26.68 
Total Finance costs
 562.90 
 977.45 
Note 29: Depreciation and amortisation expense
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 1,687.00 
 1,621.88 
Depreciation of right of use assets
 1,386.91 
 1,253.85 
Amortisation of intangible assets
 2,726.28 
 2,526.97 
Total Depreciation and amortisation expense
 5,800.19 
 5,402.70 
Note 30: Other expenses
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Electricity Power and fuel
 298.37
 307.67
Rent
 640.20
 517.42
Repairs and Maintenance:
 
Building
 89.55
 59.18
 
Machinery
 37.40
 35.11
 
Others
 631.96
 519.52
Insurance
 722.81
 547.32
Advertisement
 10,954.25
 8,658.52
Selling and Sales Promotion
 14,997.25
 12,018.99
Freight, Forwarding and Delivery
 6,770.84
 6,493.71
Wages to contractual workers
 1,664.78
 1,543.49
Payment to Auditors (Refer details below)
 119.10
 111.92
Eureka Forbes Limited
288
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Printing and Stationery
 81.03
 103.63
Communication cost
 586.95
 756.05
Travelling and Conveyance
 2,018.02
 1,682.39
Legal and Professional Fees
 2,146.71
 1,478.46
Vehicle Running Expenses
 105.25
 346.72
Rates and taxes, excluding taxes on income
 90.08
 205.87
Conference Expenses
 767.13
 914.70
Service Charges
 29,682.65
 30,027.98
Information Technology Expenses
 4,791.68
 5,405.87
Logistics Expenses
 2,445.37
 1,974.53
Other Establishment Expenses
 3,194.01
 2,904.44
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses (Refer Note 33K)
 137.08
 51.00
Directors' Sitting Fees
 9.60
 13.05
Bad Debts/Advances Written-Off
 3.50
 38.14
Provision for Doubtful Debts / Advances
 (82.87)
 123.85
Commission to Directors
 415.00
 385.00
Total Other expenses
 83,317.70
 77,224.53
Payment to Auditors
As Statutory auditor
 
For Audit fee (includes Limited Review fees)
 96.64
 100.61
 
For other services
 7.00
 0.50
 
For reimbursement of expenses
 5.09
 1.56
As Cost auditor
 8.12
 7.00
As Tax auditor
 2.25
 2.25
 119.10
 111.92
Note 31: Income tax recognised in statement of profit and loss
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Current tax
In respect of the current year
 5,901.97 
 4,084.65 
In respect of prior years
 - 
 (1.30)
 5,901.97 
 4,083.35 
Deferred tax
In respect of the current year
 (273.66)
 (800.95)
 (273.66)
 (800.95)
Total income tax expense recognised in the current year
 5,628.31 
 3,282.40 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
289
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
32 Earnings per share
 The calculations of profit attributable to equity shareholders and weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
for purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share calculation are as follows:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Profit/(Loss) for the year attributable to equity share holders
 16,440.04 
 9,563.86 
Face value per equity shares
 10 
 10 
Weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of 
basic earnings per share (Nos.)
 19,42,91,167 
 19,34,79,240 
Weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of 
diluted earnings per share (Nos.)
 19,42,92,453 
 19,40,49,754 
Basic earnings per share (`)
 8.46 
 4.94 
Diluted earnings per share (`)
 8.46 
 4.93 
Basic Earnings per share
The earnings and weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 
are as follows:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 
 16,440.04 
 9,563.86 
Weighted average number of equity shares for the purposes of basic 
earnings per share (Quantity in numbers) 
 19,42,91,167 
 19,34,79,240 
Diluted Earnings per share
The earnings and weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share 
are as follows:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 
 16,440.04 
 9,563.86 
Weighted average number of equity shares for the purposes of basic 
earnings per share (quantity in numbers) 
 19,42,91,167 
 19,34,79,240 
Add: Share deemed to be issued in respect of employee stock option 
scheme
 1,286 
 5,70,514 
Weighted average number of equity shares for the purposes of diluted 
earnings per share (quantity in numbers) 
 19,42,92,453 
 19,40,49,754 
Eureka Forbes Limited
290
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
33  
Additional information to the financial statements
33A  
Contingent liabilities and commitments ( to the extent not provided for )
 
 
(a) Contingent liabilities:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
Disputed Income Tax demands* - ` 2,220.59 lakhs (previous year ` 2,220.59 lakhs) 
 
 
(ii) 
Disputed Central Excise demands - ` 1,551.09 lakhs(previous year ` 1,551.09 lakhs) 
 
 
(iii) Disputed Sales Tax demands - ` 2,679.15 lakhs (previous year ` 3,412.98 lakhs) 
 
 
(iv) Disputed Service Tax demands - ` 858.03 lakhs (previous year ` 858.03 lakhs) 
 
 
(v) Disputed civil suit - ` 90.84 lakhs (previous year - ` 90.84 lakhs ) 
 
 
(vi)  Disputed claims against the Group not acknowledged as debt ` 42.85 lakhs (Previous Year 
` 42.85 lakhs) 
 
 
(vii) Disputed Goods and Services Tax demand - ` 2,093.1 lakhs (previous year ` 1,602.93 lakhs) 
 
 
(viii)  Disputed claims against the Group for certain Labour Law & related matters estimated at ` 42.50 lakhs 
(previous year ` 42.50 lakhs) 
 
 
 * In calculating the tax expense for the current year, the Group has considered taxability of certain income and allowability of 
certain expenditure for tax purpose based on the orders/judgments passed in further appeals in its own assessment of earlier 
year. Based on the same, no additional provision is envisaged necessary as on March 31, 2025 in respect of earlier years 
and current year.
 
 
 In respect of all items mentioned above, till the matter are finally decided, the timing of outflow of economic 
benefit cannot be ascertained.
 
 
(b) Commitments:
 
 
 
(i) 
 Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for - 
` 2,853.76 lakhs (previous year ` 491.73 lakhs).
 
 
 
(ii) 
Towards product performance ` 152.33 lakhs (previous year ` 269.55 lakhs)
 
 
 
(iii) Towards service performance ` 115.64 lakhs (previous year ` 65.28 lakhs)
33B a) 
 The Group has given certain office / factory premises and moulds on operating lease basis. Details of 
which are as follows:
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars 
Building
Plant and Machinery (Moulds)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Gross Amount
 481.49 
 481.49 
 35.66 
 35.66 
Accumulated Depreciation
 198.83 
 179.20 
 33.19 
 31.50 
Depreciation
 19.64 
 19.64 
 1.70 
 1.70 
 
b) 
 The Group has given commercial premises under cancellable operating lease. Lease rental income included in 
the statement of profit and loss for the year is ` nil Lakhs (Previous Year ` nil Lakhs) for Premises.
33C  
 The Group is primarily engaged in the business of Health, Hygiene products and its services. Information reported 
to and evaluated regularly by chief operating decision maker for the purpose of resource allocation and assessing 
performance focuses on the business as a whole. Accordingly there is no other separate segment as per Indian 
Accounting Standard 108 dealing with “Operating Segment” . The geographical segmentation is insignificant 
as the export turnover is less than 10% of the total turnover and also Group’s Non Current assets (other than 
Financial Instrument, deferred tax, post employment benefits and rights arising under insurance contracts) are 
located in India.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
291
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 
 Revenue from transactions with a single external customer did not amount to 10% or more of the Group’s revenue 
from external customers for current and previous year. 
 
 
The Group’s main revenue is from sale of water purifiers , spares and servicing.
 ` in Lakhs 
Revenue from External Customers :
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
India
 2,43,598.49 
 2,18,790.18 
Outside India
 92.94 
 134.84 
Total Revenue
 2,43,691.43 
 2,18,925.02 
33D  
 The Group did not have any material transactions with companies struck off under section 248 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 or section 560 of Companies Act, 1956 during the current year and previous year.
33E  
 The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (intermediaries) with the understanding that the intermediary shall:
 
 
(a)  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
 
 
(b)  provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
33F  
 The Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (funding party) 
with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall:
 
 
(a)  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the funding party (ultimate beneficiaries) or
 
 
(b) provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
33G  
 `1,805.77 Lakhs (Previous year `1,600.82 lakhs) revenue expenses incurred during the year on Research and 
Development has been charged to the respective heads of accounts.
33H  
 There are no scheme of arrangements which have been approved by the Competent Authority in terms of 
sections 230 to 237 of the Companies Act, 2013 during the current year.
33I  
 Disclosures required by Indian Accounting Standard 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”
 
 
A)
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2025
Year ended March 31, 2024
Excise Duty
Sales Tax 
Excise Duty
Sales Tax 
At the beginning of the year 
 49.96 
 1.29 
 49.96 
 1.29 
Additional provision during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Write back during the Year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year 
 49.96 
 1.29 
 49.96 
 1.29 
Eureka Forbes Limited
292
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 
B) 
Warranty provision
 
 
 The  Group gives  warranty on certain products, towards satisfactory performance of products during the warranty 
period. Warranty provisions are made for expected future outflows where no reimbursements are expected and 
estimated based on  using historical information on the nature frequency and average cost of warranty claims. 
The table given below gives information about movement in warranty provisions:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
At the beginning of the year 
 1,852.09 
 1,787.28 
Add: Additions during the year*
 1,935.75 
 1,852.09 
Less: Utilization during the year 
 (1,852.09)
 (1,787.28)
At the end of the year 
 1,935.75 
 1,852.09 
 
 
*Included in Service Charges under Other Expenses
33J  
 Remaining performance obligation towards rendering of maintenance contracts as at the year end is recognized 
as “Income received in advance” and presented in “Other liabilities”. This obligation pertains to maintenance 
services that would be carried out over the contract period for which company has received the advance. 
The service period ranges from 1 year to 4 year Management believes that 69% pertaining to remaining obligation 
as of the year ended 31 March 2025 will be recognised as revenue during the next financial year, 22% will be 
recognized as revenue in FY 26-27 and 9% will be recognised in FY 27-28.
 
 
Reconciliation of Revenue Recognised with contract price:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Contract Price *
 2,41,341.53 
 2,19,200.59 
Adjustment for 
Less:
Refund Liabilities - Sales Return estimate
 250.00 
 211.52 
Performance Liabilities 
 182.93 
 305.42 
Unperformed performance obligation at the end the year
 47,803.87 
 50,586.70 
Unperformed performance obligation at the beginning of the 
year
 (50,586.70)
 (50,828.07)
Revenue from continuing operations 
 2,43,691.43 
 2,18,925.02 
 
 
* Net of Taxes
33K  
Corporate social responsibility expenditure:-  
 
 
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2025
Year ended March 31, 2024
a) 
 Gross amount required to be spent by 
the Group
 137.08
 50.94 
b)  Amount spent during the year on:
Yet to be 
paid
Total
Paid in 
cash 
Yet to be 
paid
Total
 
(i) 
 Construction/acquisition of any 
asset
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
(ii) 
Purposes other than (i) above
 137.08 
 - 
 137.08 
 51.00 
 - 
 51.00 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
293
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
33L  
 The Group has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year or previous 
financial year.
33M  
 The Group does not have any benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the 
Group for holding any benami property.
33N  
 The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the Companies 
Act read with Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
33O  
 The Group does not have any investment property during any reporting period, the disclosure related to fair value 
of investment property is not applicable.
33P  
 The Group is not covered under Section 8 of the Companies Act, thus related disclosure is not applicable.
33Q  
 The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post-employment 
benefits received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. 
However, the date on which the Code will come in to effect has not been notified. The Group will assess the 
impact of the Code when it comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period when the Code 
becomes effective.
33R  
 The Group does not have any transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been 
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 
(such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
33S  
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life:
 
 
 The Group has identified its business of Health, Hygiene products and its services as a single Cash 
Generating Unit (CGU).
 
 
 The recoverable amount of the CGU has been calculated based on its value in use, estimated as the present 
value of projected future cash flows.
 
 
 The values assigned to the key assumptions represent management’s assessment of future trends in the relevant 
industries and have been based on historical data from both external and internal sources. Market related 
information and estimates are used to determine the recoverable amount.
 
 
 Key assumptions on which management has based its determination of recoverable amount include estimated 
long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimated operating margins. Cash flow projections 
take into account past experience and represent management’s best estimate about future developments.
 
 
The key assumptions used in the estimation of the recoverable amount are set out below.
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
March 31, 2025
Discount rate
12.50%
Terminal value growth rate
5.50%
 
 
The discount rate was derived basis the weighted-average cost of capital of debt and equity.
 
 
 The cash flow projections included specific estimates for five years and a terminal growth rate thereafter. 
The terminal growth rate was determined based on management’s estimate of the long-term EBITDA growth 
rate, consistent with the assumptions that a market participant would make. Budgeted EBITDA was estimated 
taking into account past experience, adjusted for future expectations.
 
 
 The Group has performed a sensitivity analysis and has concluded that there are no reasonably possible changes 
to key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of a CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
Eureka Forbes Limited
294
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
33T  
Exceptional items for the year ended March 31, 2025 amounting to ` 417.69 lakhs pertains to the following:
 
 
A) 
 Exceptional items for the year ended March 31, 2024 pertains to a fire incident at Delhi warehouse location 
resulting in damages to inventory including raw materials, components, and finished goods. An insurance 
claim had been filed in due course to cover the losses sustained from this incident amounting to `1,514.90 
lakhs (including GST). 
 
 
 
 As of September 30, 2024 the company had received on account an initial amount of `300 lakhs against 
the claim in the second quarter of the financial year. Further, the company has received a full and final claim 
settlement amount of `1,001.12 lakhs in the fourth quarter of the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
 
 
 
 An amount of `883.43 lakhs for the quarter ended March 31, 2025 which is charged to Statement of Profit & 
Loss, on account of phasing out of certain product category and models including its components, due to 
change in economic conditions and technological obsolescence.
 
 
B) 
Exceptional items for the year ended March 31, 2024 amounting to ` 1,514.90 lakhs pertains to the following:
 
 
 
 An amount of ` 1,514.90 lakhs (including GST) for the quarter and year ended March 31, 2024 which is 
charged to Statement of Profit & Loss, on account of a fire at its Delhi warehouse location, resulting in 
damage to inventory, including raw materials, components, and finished goods. An insurance claim has 
been filed to cover the losses sustained from this incident.
33U  
 Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires determination of the most appropriate valuation 
model, which depends on the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also requires determination of the 
most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of the share option or appreciation 
right, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions about them. For the measurement of the fair value 
of equity-settled transactions with employees at the grant date, the Group uses a Black Scholes model and 
Monte-Carlo simulation model basis the type of option granted. The assumptions and models used for estimating 
fair value for share-based payment transactions are disclosed.
33V  
 Figures for the previous year are re-arranged/regrouped, wherever necessary, to correspond with the current 
year disclosure.
33W  
 The Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 were approved for issue by Group’s Board of 
Directors on May 16, 2025.
34 Additional information to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2025
 
(I) 
Related Party Disclosures as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
Particulars  
 Country 
A
Holding Company 
1 
Lunolux Limited (Ultimately controlled and 100% owned by funds managed by Advent 
International Corporation ("AIC")) 
 Cyprus 
B
Subsidiaries
1
Forbes Aquatech Limited 
 India 
2
Infinite Water Solutions Private Limited 
 India 
3
Forbes Lux FZE - Dubai 
 Dubai 
4
Euro Forbes Limited - Dubai 
 Dubai 
C
Name of Post employment benefit plans with whom transactions were carried out 
during the year:
1
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Provident Fund  
 India 
2
Eureka Forbes Limited Managing Staff Superannuation Scheme  
 India 
3
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Gratuity Fund  
 India 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
295
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Particulars  
D
Key Managerial Personnel 
1
Mr. Arvind Uppal - Chairman & Non executive director
2
Mr. Pratik R Pota- Managing director & CEO
3
Mr. Homi Katgara  - Non executive Independent director
4
Mr. Vinod Rao - Non executive Independent director
5
Mrs. Gurveen Singh - Non executive Independent director
6
Mr. Shashank Samant - Non executive Independent director
7
Mr. Sahil Dalal - Non executive director
 
(II) Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs 
Nature of  
Transaction  
 Eureka Forbes 
Limited Employees 
Provident Fund 
 Eureka 
Forbes Limited 
Managing Staff 
Superannuation 
Scheme 
 Eureka Forbes 
Limited Employees 
Gratuity Fund 
Expenses
Contributions (Employer's) to Post 
Retirement Funds
 1,617.31 
 103.86 
 560.41 
Outstanding
Other payables to the Trust
 109.82 
 8.96 
 488.39 
 
 
All the related party transactions entered into by the Group are at arm’s length basis.
(III) Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2025
 
Parties in D : Key Managerial Personnel Remuneration
 
Managing Director & CEO
Particulars
Pratik R Pota
Short-term employee benefits
 775.12 
Post-employment benefits *
 28.52 
Share based payments #
 - 
Total 
 803.64 
 
*  The above amounts do not include expenses for gratuity and leave encashment since actuarial valuation is carried out at 
an overall level.
 
#  The company has recognised an expense provision of  ` 1,578.73 Lakhs. (previous year ` 2,142.36 Lakhs) towards employee 
stock options granted to key managerial personnel. The said amount represent fair value of option granted. The same has not 
been considered as managerial remuneration for the current year as defined under section 2(7B) of the Companies Act,2013 as 
the options have not been vested.
 
 Aggregate remuneration paid/payable to managing director & CEO does not exceed the limit prescribed under 
section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Eureka Forbes Limited
296
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
Directors Sitting Fees and Commission 
 ` in Lakhs
Name 
Amount
Outstanding Amount 
as at March 31, 2025
Mr. Homi Katgara
 27.90 
 27.00 
Mr. Arvind Uppal
 29.15 
 27.00 
Mr. Vinod Rao
 29.60 
 27.00 
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
 29.60 
 27.00 
Mr. Shashank Samant
 28.35 
 27.00 
Total
 144.60 
 135.00 
Aggregate remuneration paid/payable to non-whole time directors does not exceeds the limit prescribed under 
section 197 of companies act, 2013.
 
Additional information to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024
 
(I) 
Related Party Disclosures as at and for the year ended 31 March 2024
Particulars  
 Country 
A
Holding Company 
1 
Lunolux Limited (Ultimately controlled and 100% owned by funds managed by Advent 
International Corporation ("AIC")) 
 Cyprus 
B
Subsidiaries
1
Forbes Aquatech Limited 
 India 
2
Infinite Water Solutions Private Limited 
 India 
3
Forbes Lux FZE - Dubai 
 Dubai 
4
Euro Forbes Limited - Dubai 
 Dubai 
C
Name of Post employment benefit plans with whom transactions were carried out 
during the year:
1
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Provident Fund  
 India 
2
Eureka Forbes Limited Managing Staff Superannuation Scheme  
 India 
3
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Gratuity Fund  
 India 
D
Key Managerial Personnel 
1
Mr. Arvind Uppal - Chairman & Non executive director
2
Mr. Pratik R Pota- Managing director & CEO
3
Mr. Homi Katgara  - Non executive Independent director
4
Mr. Vinod Rao - Non executive Independent director
5
Mrs. Gurveen Singh - Non executive Independent director
6
Mr. Shashank Samant - Non executive Independent director
7
Mr. Sahil Dalal - Non executive director
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
297
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
(II) Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended March 31, 2024
 ` in Lakhs 
Nature of  
Transaction  
 Eureka 
Forbes Limited 
Employees 
Provident Fund 
 Eureka 
Forbes Limited 
Managing Staff 
Superannuation 
Scheme 
 Eureka 
Forbes Limited 
Employees 
Gratuity Fund 
Expenses
Contributions (Employer's) to Post Retirement 
Funds
 1,564.08 
 187.43 
 714.11 
Outstanding
Other payables to the Trust
 98.41 
 13.02 
 347.59 
 
(III) Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2024
 
 
Parties in D : Key Managerial Personnel Remuneration
 
 
Managing Director & CEO
Particulars
Pratik R Pota
Short-term employee benefits
 647.38 
Post-employment benefits *
 22.92 
Share based payments #
 - 
Total 
 670.30 
 
 
*  The above amounts do not include expenses for gratuity and leave encashment since actuarial valuation is carried out at 
an overall level.
 
 
#  The company has recognised a provision of ` 2,142.36 Lakhs (previous year Nil) towards employee stock options granted 
to key managerial personnel. The said amount represent fair value of option granted. The same has not been considered as 
managerial remuneration for the current year as defined under section 2(7B) of the Companies Act, 2013 as the options have 
not been vested.
 
 
 Aggregate remuneration paid/payable to managing director & CEO does not exceed the limit prescribed under 
section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013.
 
Directors Sitting Fees and Commission 
 ` in Lakhs
Name 
Amount
Outstanding Amount 
as at March 31, 2024
Mr. Homi Katgara
 29.55 
 27.40 
Mr. Arvind Uppal
 29.55 
 27.40 
Mr. Vinod Rao
 29.90 
 27.40 
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
 29.50 
 27.40 
Mr. Shashank Samant
 29.55 
 27.40 
Total
 148.05 
 137.00 
Aggregate remuneration paid/payable to non-whole time directors does not exceeds the limit prescribed under 
section 197 of companies act, 2013.
Eureka Forbes Limited
298
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
35 Leases: 
The break-up of current and non-current lease liabilities as at March 31, 2025 is:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current lease liabilities
1,008.31
972.81
Non-current lease liabilities
1,547.04
409.66
Total
2,555.35
1,382.47
The following is the movement in lease liabilities during the year ended March 31, 2025:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,378.84 
 1,892.28 
Additions
 2,456.65 
 549.50 
Finance cost accrued during the year
 302.83 
 190.99 
Adjustments
-
 265.89 
Deletions
 - 
 (87.74)
(Gain)/Loss on Modification/Disposal of Right of use assets 
 - 
 (9.58)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (1,582.97)
 (1,418.87)
Balance at the end of the year
 2,555.35 
 1,382.47 
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of lease liabilities as at March 31, 2025 on an 
undiscounted basis:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Less than one year
 1,220.55 
 1,016.26 
One to five years
 1,728.87 
 632.35 
More than five years
 9.58 
 10.46 
Total
 2,959.00 
 1,659.07 
Rental expense recorded for short-term leases was ` 640.20 Lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2025. (Previous Year: 
` 517.42 Lakhs)
Ind AS 116 requires lessees to determine the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease adjusted with any option 
to extend or terminate the lease, if the use of such option is reasonably certain. The Group makes an assessment on the 
expected lease term on a lease-by-lease basis and thereby assesses whether it is reasonably certain that any options to 
extend or terminate the contract will be exercised. In evaluating the lease term, the Group considers factors such as any 
significant leasehold improvements undertaken over the lease term, costs relating to the termination of the lease and the 
importance of the underlying asset to the Group’s operations taking into account the location of the underlying asset and 
the availability of suitable alternatives. The lease term in future periods is reassessed to ensure that the lease term reflects 
the current economic circumstances. After considering current and future economic conditions, the Group has concluded 
that no changes are required to lease period relating to the existing lease contracts.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
299
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Depreciation expense on right-of-use assets
 1,386.91 
 1,253.85 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 302.83 
 190.99 
Expense relating to short-term leases
 640.20 
 517.42 
36 Employee benefit plans
(a)  Provident Fund
 
 The details of Eureka Forbes Limited Employees’ Provident Fund and planned assets position as at March 31, 
2025 is given below
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Valuation as at
 March 31, 2025 
 March 31, 2024 
Present value of benefit obligation at year end 
 16,821.66 
 15,950.48 
Planned Assets at the year end
 20,319.32 
 18,877.41 
Discounting Rate 
6.79%
7.22%
Expected Guaranteed interest rate
8.25%
8.25%
Average Expected Future Service
12 years
 16 years 
(b)  Gratuity Fund
 
 The principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuations were as follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Valuation as at
Valuation as at
 March 31, 2025 
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2025 
 March 31, 2024 
 Funded 
 Unfunded 
Discount rate(s)
6.79%
7.22%
6.78% - 7.21%
7.21%
Expected rate(s) of salary 
increase
5.00%
5.00%
 5.00% - 5.50% 
 5.00% - 5.50% 
Mortality rates
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
2012-14 (Urban)
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
2012-14 (Urban)
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
2012-14 (Urban)
 Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
2012-14 (Urban) 
 
 Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss/ other comprehensive income in respect of these defined benefit 
plans are as follows.
 
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
 Funded 
 Unfunded 
Service cost:
 Current service cost
 217.25 
 176.18 
 1.67 
 1.21 
Net interest expense
 25.10 
 39.80 
 1.62 
 1.13 
Components of defined benefit 
costs recognised in profit or 
loss
 242.35 
 215.98 
 3.29 
 2.34 
Remeasurement on the net 
defined benefit liability:
Eureka Forbes Limited
300
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
 Funded 
 Unfunded 
Return on plan assets (excluding 
amounts included in net interest 
expense)
23.44
 (33.58)
 - 
 - 
Actuarial (gains) / losses arising 
from changes in financial  
assumptions
73.88
 107.56 
 0.94 
 1.19 
Actuarial (gains) / losses arising 
from experience adjustments
 361.55 
 241.06 
 3.36 
 0.25 
Components of defined benefit 
costs recognised in other 
comprehensive income
 458.87 
 315.04 
 4.30 
 1.44 
Total
 701.22 
 531.02 
 7.59 
 3.78 
 
 The current service cost and the net interest expense for the year are included in the ‘Employee benefits expense’ line 
item in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 The remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability is included in other comprehensive income.
 
 The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the entity’s obligation in respect of its defined benefit 
plans is as follows.
 
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at 
March 31, 2024
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at 
March 31, 2024
 Funded 
 Unfunded 
Present value of funded defined 
benefit obligation 
 (2,219.52)
 (1,993.97)
 (23.55)
 (18.95)
Fair value of plan assets  
 1,741.88 
 1,657.14 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 (477.64)
 (336.83)
 (23.55)
 (18.95)
Restrictions on asset recognised  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Others 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Net liability arising from defined 
benefit obligation 
 (477.64)
 (336.83)
 (23.55)
 (18.95)
 
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
 
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at 
March 31, 2024
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at 
March 31, 2024
 Funded 
 Unfunded 
Opening defined benefit obligation
 1,993.97 
 2,144.19 
 18.95 
 15.17 
Current service cost
 217.25 
 176.18 
 1.67 
 1.21 
Interest cost
 143.23 
 160.05 
 1.62 
 1.13 
Remeasurement (gains)/losses:
Actuarial gains and losses 
arising from changes in financial 
assumptions
 73.88 
 107.56 
 0.94 
 1.19 
Actuarial gains and losses arising 
from experience adjustments
 361.55 
 241.06 
 3.36 
 0.25 
Benefits paid
 (570.36)
 (835.07)
 (2.99)
 - 
Closing defined benefit 
obligation
 2,219.52 
 1,993.97 
 23.55 
 18.95 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
301
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
Movements in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
 Funded 
Opening fair value of plan assets 
 1,657.14 
 1,624.27 
Interest income 
 118.13 
 120.25 
Remeasurement gain/(loss):
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest 
expense)
 (23.44)
 33.58 
Contributions from the employer
 560.41 
 714.11 
Assets Transferred In/Acquisition 
 - 
 - 
Benefits paid
 (570.36)
 (835.07)
Other
 - 
 - 
Closing fair value of plan assets
 1,741.88 
 1,657.14 
The fair value of the plan assets at the end of the reporting period for each category, are as follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Fair Value of plan asset as at
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at 
March 31, 2024
 Funded 
Government Of Indian Assets 
 300.62 
 296.82 
State Government Securities 
 353.69 
 317.64 
Special Deposit Scheme
 41.03 
 41.03 
Debt Instrument 
 589.45 
 712.35 
Corporate Bond
 199.44 
 104.05 
Cash and cash equivalents
 142.06 
 87.13 
Others
 20.95 
 20.97 
Mutual Funds
 94.64 
 77.15 
Total 
 1,741.88 
 1,657.14 
 
Maturity Analysis of the Benefits Payments from the Fund 
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at 
March 31, 2024
 Funded 
Projected Benefits payable in future years from the date of 
reporting
1st Following Year
 231.73 
 187.39 
2nd Following Year
 104.44 
 141.56 
3rd Following Year
 193.26 
 183.65 
4th Following Year
 187.69 
 256.11 
5th Following Year
 178.76 
 195.44 
Sum of years 6 to 10
 926.71 
 763.88 
Sum of years 11 and above 
 2,542.68 
 2,121.07 
Eureka Forbes Limited
302
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
Sensitivity Analysis
 
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
 Funded 
 Unfunded 
Presented benefit obligation on 
current assumptions
 2,219.52 
 1,993.97 
 16.11 
 11.72 
Discount rate (1% increase)
 (165.18)
 (133.63)
 (1.84)
 (1.06)
Discount rate (1% decrease)
 190.59 
 152.92 
 2.19 
 1.26 
Future salary growth (1% 
increase)
 192.12 
 154.80 
 2.20 
 1.29 
Future salary growth (1% 
decrease)
 (169.30)
 (137.49)
 (1.89)
 (1.09)
Attrition movement (1% increase)
 20.05 
 22.23 
 0.36 
 0.40 
Attrition movement (1% decrease)
 (23.38)
 (25.24)
 (0.41)
 (0.46)
 
Sensitivity Analysis
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Presented benefit obligation on current assumptions
 7.45 
 7.23 
Discount rate (0.50% increase)
 (0.28)
 (0.26)
Discount rate (0.50% decrease)
 0.30 
 0.28 
Future salary growth (0.50% increase)
 0.30 
 0.28 
Future salary growth (0.50% decrease)
 (0.28)
 (0.26)
 
 The sensitivity analysis have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
 
 The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit 
obligation as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the 
assumptions may be correlated.
 
 Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been 
calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same method as 
applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation as recognised in the balance sheet.
 
 There was no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis from prior year.
 
 In respect of foreign subsidiaries of the group, retirement benefits are governed and accrued as per local statutes 
and there are no defined benefit plans. The amount contributed to the defined contribution plan is charged to the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit & Loss on accrual basis. Hence the above table includes the details of Company’s 
incorporated in India only.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
303
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
37 Employee share option scheme expenses
A 
Employees Stock Option Plan (ESOP 2022)
 
 The Company instituted an Employee Stock Option Scheme 2022 (“ESOP”) for certain employees which provides for 
a grant of 1,75,21,597 options (each option convertible into shares) to employees. The Company has made grant of 
total 1,65,75,499 options as below:
 ` in Lakhs 
Grant date
No of Options
29-05-23
1,35,95,130
21-06-23
13,54,685
09-11-23
4,54,994
21-03-24
2,74,453
28-05-24
2,54,295
07-11-24
1,77,405
10-02-25
4,64,537
Total
1,65,75,499
Scheme Details
 
The Company has granted two categories of ESOP. The detail of options granted under the plan are as under:
 
Terms of Category 1 (Service based) options
 
9,79,972 tenure based options to vest as under:
Type 1
Type 2
Vesting period
On completion of  
1 year period*
55% on completion of  1 year period* 
and 45% on completion on 2nd Year
Grant date
29-May-23
29-May-23
Exercise price
210.00
400.93
No. of Options
9,67,396
12,576
Exercise period 
Maximum period of 4 years from the date of Vesting. 
Method of settlement (cash/equity)
Equity shares
 
* Type 1 Service based options and 55% of Type 2 options have vested during the year
 
 The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using Black Scholes Option Pricing (“BSOP”) method, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted.
 
Terms of Category 2 ( Performance based) options
 
1,55,95,527 tenure and performance based options to vest only upon the following conditions being met 
 
1 
 If 6 months Volume weighted average price of the share (VWAP) > 2.5x/ 3x/ 4.5x USD Multiple of Money (MoM) 
then employee will get variable number of ESOP depending on various range of MoM. (Range- minimum 2.5X 
MoM till more than 5X MoM)
Eureka Forbes Limited
304
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
2 
 If investor sales the stake and  Internal Rate of Return (IRR)/ MoM /VWAP achieved, employee will get variable 
number of ESOP which will vest in proportion to stake sale and range of MoM/ IRR.
Grant 
date
29-May-23 29-May-23
21-Jun-23
21-Jun-23
09-Nov-23
21-Mar-24 28-May-24
07-Nov-24
10-Feb-25
Exercise 
price
210
400.93
210
586.09
505.06
446.8
436.9
591.9
549
No. of 
Options
Minimum- 
4281697; 
Maximum- 
9927421
Minimum- 
379726; 
Maximum- 
2687737
Minimum- 
779000; 
Maximum- 
804719
Minimum- 
469813; 
Maximum- 
549966
Minimum- 
384413 
Maximum- 
454994
Minimum- 
244254 
Maximum- 
274453
Minimum- 
224086 
Maximum- 
254295
Minimum- 
168358 
Maximum- 
177405
Minimum- 
372552 
Maximum- 
464537
Vesting 
Period
Maximum period of vesting is 7 years from the date of Grant 
Exercise 
period 
Maximum period of 4 years from the date of Vesting. 
Method of 
settlement 
(cash/
equity)
Equity shares
 
 The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using Monte Carlo Simulation Pricing (“MCS”) method 
so as to evaluate whether the performance conditions have been achieved.
 
The details of the activity has been summarised below*:
Description
March 31, 2025
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 1,52,96,481 
Exercisable at the beginning of the year
 - 
Granted during the year 
 8,96,237 
Forfeited during the year
 (14,39,786)
Exercised during the year
 - 
Vested during the year
 (9,74,313)
Expired during the period
 - 
Transferred during the period
 - 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 1,37,78,619 
Exercisable at the end of the year
 9,74,313 
Weighted average remaining contractual life (in years)
 3.14 years 
 
*Considering variable number of options, the maximum number of options are considered for the purpose of disclosure.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
305
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
Valuation of ESOP Scheme
 
 The Black Scholes valuation  model has been used for computing the weighted average fair value for Category 1 
stock options considering the following inputs:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
Grant date
29-May-23
Weighted average share price/ market price per share (` per share)
401.10
Exercise price (` per share)
210-400.9
Dividend yield
1.80%
Expected Life of options granted (vesting and exercise price in years)
1- 2 years
Average risk free interest rate
 6.7% - 6.8% 
Expected Volatility
 25.2% - 27.6% 
Fair value of option per equity share
 49.1 - 197.90 
 
 The Monte Carlo Simulation Pricing (“MCS”) method has been used for computing the fair value for Category 
2 stock options considering the following inputs:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
Grant date
29-May-23
21-Jun-23
09-Nov-23
21-Mar-24
28-May-24
07-Nov-24
10-Feb-25
Weighted average share 
price/ market price per 
share (` per share)
401.10
587.40
500.30
449.50
430.00
634.70
554.10
Exercise price (` per share)
210-400.9
 210-586 
505.10
446.80
436.90
591.90
549.00
Dividend yield
1.80%
1.80%
2.00%
2.00%
1.50%
1.00%
1.25%
Expected Life of options 
granted (in years)
 4.9 - 7 
4.85
4.46
4.10
3.92
3.47
3.21
Average risk free interest 
rate
6.70%
6.70%
 6.9% - 7.3%  6.8% - 7.1% 
6.90%
 6.4% - 6.8% 
 6.4% - 6.8% 
Expected Volatility
25.00%
25.00%
25.00%
25.00%
30.00%
38.9%, 36.1%
42.4%, 39.6%
Fair value of option per 
equity share
 43.07-661.47  656.37- 919.63 
714.13
769.17
795.54
867.47
955.29
B 
Effect of employee stock option plan on the Statement of Profit and Loss and on its financial position:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Total employee compensation cost pertaining to stock option plan
 2,209.12 
 3,448.76 
Employee Stock option plan (ESOP) reserve
 5,657.88 
 3,448.76 
Eureka Forbes Limited
306
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
38 Financial instruments
 
Capital management
 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to:
 
-  
 safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern, so that they can continue to provide returns for shareholders 
and benefits for other stakeholders, and
 
-  
Maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
 
 In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or 
sell assets to reduce debt.
 
 Consistent with the industry, the Group, primarily, uses the gearing ratio to monitor and maintain the capital structure 
which is as follows:
 
Net debt (total borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents) divided by ‘total equity’ (as shown in the balance sheet).
 
The gearing ratios were as follows:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Borrowings
 - 
 2,491.97 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
 9,550.93 
 6,132.17 
Net debt
 (9,550.93)
 (3,640.20)
Total equity
 4,40,990.02 
 4,22,684.34 
Net debt to equity ratio
(2.17%)
(0.86%)
39 Financial instruments – Fair values 
 
Accounting classification and fair values
 ` in Lakhs
 As at March 31, 2025 
 As at March 31, 2024 
FVTPL*
FVTOCI**
Amortised 
Cost
FVTPL*
FVTOCI**
Amortised 
Cost
Financial assets 
Cash and Bank Balances
 - 
 - 
 25,165.52 
 - 
 - 
 9,754.67 
Short-term loans and 
advances
 - 
 - 
 48.15 
 - 
 - 
 48.07 
Trade and other receivables
 - 
 - 
 18,011.55 
 - 
 - 
 13,751.84 
Current Investments
 5,894.94 
 - 
 - 
 5,494.84 
 - 
 - 
Non Current Investments
 - 
 1.42 
 - 
 - 
 1.42 
 - 
Other Current financial Asset 
 - 
 - 
 61.19 
 - 
 - 
 90.70 
Other Non Current financial 
Asset
 - 
 - 
 1,591.91 
 - 
 - 
 1,268.45 
Total Financial Asset 
 5,894.94 
 1.42 
 44,878.32 
 5,494.84 
 1.42 
 24,913.73 
Financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables
 - 
 - 
 18,317.17 
 - 
 - 
 19,364.26 
Other Current financial 
liabilities
 - 
 - 
 21,070.96 
 - 
 - 
 19,389.13 
Other Non Current financial 
liabilities
 - 
 - 
 1,547.04 
 - 
 - 
 409.66 
Current Borrowings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,491.97 
Non Current Borrowings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total Financial Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 40,935.17 
 - 
 - 
 41,655.02 
 
 * Mandatorily measured at fair value in accordance with Ind AS 109
 
**  Investments in equity instruments designated as such upon initial recognition in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of Ind AS 109.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
307
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
 These investments in equity instruments are not held for trading. Instead, they are held for medium or long term 
strategic purpose. Upon the application of IND AS 109, the Group has chosen to designate these investments in 
equity instruments at FVTOCI as it is believed that this provides a more meaningful presentation for medium or long 
term strategic investment than reflecting changes in fair value immediately in profit and loss Account. 
 
 Fair value Hierarchy  
 
 This section explains the judgement and the estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments 
that are recognised and measured at fair value.
` in Lakhs
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
- recurring fair value measurements at 31 March 2025 
(Refer note Below)
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets 
Financial investment at FVTPL
Listed Equity Investment 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted Investments in Mutual funds
 5,894.94 
 - 
 - 
 5,894.94 
Financial investment at FVTOCI 
Quoted Investments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted Investments
 - 
 - 
 1.42 
 1.42 
Total Financial Asset 
 5,894.94 
 - 
 1.42 
 5,896.36 
Financial Liabilities
Derivatives accounted at FVTPL
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total Financial Liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
` in Lakhs
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
- recurring fair value measurements At March 2024 
(Refer note Below)
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets 
Financial investment at FVTPL
Listed Equity Investment 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted Investments in Mutual funds
 5,494.84 
 - 
 - 
 5,494.84 
Financial investment at FVTOCI 
Quoted Investments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted Investments 
 - 
 - 
 1.42 
 1.42 
Total Financial Asset 
 5,494.84 
 - 
 1.42 
 5,496.26 
Financial Liabilities
Derivatives accounted at FVTPL
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total Financial Liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Eureka Forbes Limited
308
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
Reconciliation of level 3 fair value measurement of financial Instruments
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Opening Value of Fair Value 
 1.42 
 1.42 
Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in statement of Profit or Loss 
 - 
 - 
Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in Other Comprehensive Income 
 - 
 - 
Purchases made during the year 
 - 
 - 
Sales made during the year 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance of Fair Value 
 1.42 
 1.42 
 
Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuations for level 3 items
Significant unobservable Inputs 
Relationship of unobservable Inputs to fair value 
Long term revenue growth rates taking into accounts 
managements experience and knowledge of market 
conditions of the specific industries.
A slight increase in the long term revenue growth rates 
used in isolation would result in increase in fair value.
Long term pre tax operating margin taking into account 
managements experience and knowledge if market 
conditions of the specific industries.
A significant increase in the long term pre tax operating 
margin used in isolation would result in increase in fair 
value.
Weighted average cost of capital (WACC), determined 
using a Capital Asset pricing Model 
A slight increase in the WACC used in isolation would 
result in decrease in Fair value 
 
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
 
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
 
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
 
n  
the use of quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments.
 
n  
 All of the resulting fair value estimates are included in level 1 except for unlisted equity securities where the 
fair values have been determined based on present values and the discount rates used were adjusted for 
counterparty or own credit risk.
 
n  
 The carrying amount of Trade receivables, Trade payables, cash and Cash Equivalents are considered to be the 
same as their Fair Values, due to their short term in nature.
 
n  
 The Fair value of financial Instrument that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation 
technique. The company uses its Judgement to select a variety of methods and make assumptions that are 
mainly based on market conditions existing at the end of each reporting period.
40 Financial instruments – Financial risk management 
 
 The Group’s activities expose it to market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. In order to minimise any adverse effects 
on the financial performance of the Group, such as foreign exchange forward contracts are entered to hedge certain 
foreign currency risk exposure.
 
 This note explains the sources of risk which the entity is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk in the 
financial statements.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
309
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
Risk 
Exposure Arising from 
Measurement 
Management 
Credit Risk 
Cash and Cash Equivalents, trade 
receivables, financial assets measured at 
amortised cost and fair value through profit 
or loss
Aging analysis, 
Credit Rating 
Diversification of bank 
deposits, credit limits and 
letter of credit 
Liquidity Risk Borrowing and other liabilities
Rolling cash flow 
Forecast 
Availability of committed credit 
lines and borrowing facilities 
Market 
Risk- Foreign 
Currency
Future commercial Transactions Recognised 
financial assets and liabilities not 
denominated in Indian rupee (`)
Cash flow 
Forecasting 
Sensitivity analysis
Forward foreign currency 
Contracts Foreign currency 
option 
Market Risk- 
Interest rate
Long-term borrowings at variable rate 
Sensitivity analysis
Interest rate Swaps 
Market Risk- 
Security 
prices
Investment in equity securities 
Sensitivity analysis
Portfolio diversification 
 
 The Group’s risk management is carried out by the Treasury team under policies approved by the  Finance committee. 
Treasury team identifies, evaluates and mitigates the financial risks.
41 Financial instruments – Financial risk management 
(a) Credit risk
 
 Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, investments and deposits with banks, as well as credit exposures 
to customers including outstanding receivables.
 
 The carrying amounts of financial assets represent the maximum credit risk exposure. The maximum exposure to 
credit risk at the reporting date was:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Investments
 5,894.94 
 5,494.84 
Trade receivables
 18,011.55 
 13,751.84 
Cash and cash equivalents
 9,550.93 
 6,132.17 
Other bank balances 
 15,614.59 
 3,622.50 
Loans
 48.15 
 48.07 
Other financial assets
 1,653.10 
 1,359.15 
 
Trade Receivables
 
 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables by geographic region was as follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
India
 17,967.79 
 13,718.26 
Other regions
 43.76 
 33.58 
Total
 18,011.55 
 13,751.84 
Eureka Forbes Limited
310
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
Impairment
 
The ageing of trade and other receivables that were not impaired was as follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
0-1 Year 
 17,722.25 
 13,546.94 
1-2 Year 
 204.86 
 130.36 
2-3 Year 
 157.01 
 74.11 
More Than 3 Years
 - 
 0.43 
Total
 18,084.12 
 13,751.84 
 
 The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade and other receivables during the year was as 
follows.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Opening Balance
 1,240.47 
 3,943.90 
Amount written off/(written back) during the year
 - 
 161.99 
Impairment loss recognised/(released)
 (174.79)
 (2,865.42)
Balance
 1,065.68 
 1,240.47 
 
 The Group held cash and cash equivalents of ` 9,550.93 lakhs at March 31, 2025 (March 31, 2024: ` 6,132.17 
lakhs). The cash and cash equivalents are held with bank ` 9,546.50 lakhs at March 31, 2025 (March 31, 2024: 
` 5,974.39 Lakhs).
(b) Liquidity risk
 
 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial 
liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Company’s approach to managing liquidity 
is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they are due, under both 
normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Company’s reputation.
 
Exposure to liquidity risk
 
 The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The amounts are 
gross and undiscounted:
 ` in Lakhs
Non-derivative financial 
liabilities
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities 
 Carrying 
amount 
 On 
Demand 
 0-1 year 
 1-5 years 
 > 5 years 
 Total 
As at March 31, 2025
Banks - Long term loans 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade payables 
 18,317.17 
 - 
 18,317.17 
 - 
 - 
 18,317.17 
Lease Liabilities  
 2,959.00 
 - 
 1,220.55 
 1,728.87 
 9.58 
 2,959.00 
Other Payable 
 20,062.65 
 - 
 20,062.65 
 - 
 - 
 20,062.65 
As at March 31, 2024
Banks - Long term loans 
 2,491.97 
 - 
 2,491.97 
 - 
 - 
 2,491.97 
Trade payables 
 19,364.26 
 - 
 19,364.26 
 - 
 - 
 19,364.26 
Lease Liabilities  
 1,382.47 
 - 
 1,016.26 
 632.35 
 10.46 
 1,659.07 
Other Payable 
 18,416.32 
 - 
 18,416.32 
 - 
 - 
 18,416.32 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
311
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
(c) (i)  
Market Risk- Foreign currency
 
 
Exposure to currency risk
 
 
The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024:
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2025
USD in Lakhs
EUR in Lakhs
SGD in Lakhs
JPY in Lakhs
Financial assets 
Other Non-current financial 
assets
 7.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
 63.40 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 71.06 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
Financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables
 35.24 
 0.20 
 0.09 
 63.60 
 35.24 
 0.20 
 0.09 
 63.60 
Net Exposure
 35.82 
 (0.15)
 (0.09)
 (63.60)
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
arch 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2024
USD in Lakhs
EUR in Lakhs
SGD in Lakhs
JPY in Lakhs
Financial assets 
Short-term loans and 
advances
 1.30 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
 47.42 
 0.06 
 - 
 - 
 48.72 
 0.06 
 - 
 - 
Financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables
 16.41 
 0.18 
 0.09 
 - 
 16.41 
 0.18 
 0.09 
 - 
Net Exposure
 32.31 
 (0.12)
 (0.09)
 - 
 
 
The following significant exchange rates have been applied.
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Year-end spot rate
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
USD / `
 85.53 
 83.34 
EUR / `
 92.60 
 89.93 
SGD / `
 63.69 
 61.68 
JPY / `
 0.57 
 - 
 
 
Sensitivity analysis
 
 
 The Sensitivity of profit or loss to changes in the exchange rates arises mainly from foreign currency denominated 
financial instruments
Eureka Forbes Limited
312
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Effect in `
Profit or (loss)
Strengthening
Weakening
As at March 31, 2025
USD 5% movement 
 (153.18)
 153.18 
EUR 5% movement 
 0.72 
 (0.72)
SGD 5% movement 
 0.30 
 (0.30)
JPY 5% movement 
 1.82 
 (1.82)
 (150.34)
 150.34 
 ` in Lakhs
Effect in `
Profit or (loss)
Strengthening
Weakening
As at March 31, 2024
USD 5% movement 
 (134.62)
 134.62 
EUR 5% movement 
 0.54 
 (0.54)
SGD 5% movement 
 0.29 
 (0.29)
 (133.79)
 133.79 
 
 
 In management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk 
because the  exposure at the end of the reporting period does not reflect the exposure during the year.
(c) (ii)  
Market Risk- Interest rate
 
 
 The Exposure of the Group borrowing to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period are as follow
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Variable Rate Borrowing 
 - 
 2,491.97 
 
 
 The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative 
instruments at the end of the reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the 
amount of the liability outstanding at the end of the reporting period was outstanding for the whole year. A 50 
basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel 
and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
 
 
If interest rates had been 50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s:
 
 
 Profit for the year ended March 31, 2025 would decrease/increase by ` 16.16 lakhs (2024: decrease/ increase by 
` 13.87 lakhs). This is mainly attributable to the company’s exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.
 
 
 The assumed movement in basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently 
observable market environment, showing a significantly higher volatility than in prior year.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
313
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
42 Assets pledged as security
 
The carrying amounts of assets pledged as security for current and non-current borrowings are:
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
Notes
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current
Financial Assets
Trade Receivable 
 8
 17,988.66 
 13,718.38 
Inventories
13
 24,313.92 
 24,368.54 
Other Current Assets
12
 - 
 - 
Total Current assets pledged as security
 42,302.58 
 38,086.92 
Non-current
Land - Freehold
3
 6,405.00 
 6,405.00 
Buildings 
3
 13,674.39 
 13,954.02 
Other Property, plant and equipment *
3
 8,164.47 
 6,707.35 
Land - Leasehold 
4
 328.25 
 333.55 
Total Non Current assets pledged as security
 28,572.11 
 27,399.92 
Total assets pledged as security
 70,874.69 
 65,486.84 
 
* Property, plant and equipment as per Note 3 includes moveable asset for employee benefits, which has not been pledged.
 
No charges or satisfaction are pending to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.
43 Movement in deferred tax balances
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
 As at April 1, 2024 
For the year 2024-25
 As at March 31, 2025 
 Deferred tax 
asset 
 Deferred tax 
liability 
 Recognised 
in profit or 
loss 
 Recognised 
in OCI 
 Deferred tax 
asset 
Deferred tax 
liability
Deferred Tax Assets/
Liabilities
Property, plant and 
equipment
 (10.63)
 4,758.79 
 148.27 
 - 
 (10.63)
 4,907.06 
Provisions
 7.43 
 (1,324.94)
 124.76 
 - 
 7.43 
 (1,200.18)
Lease Liabilities 
 8.45 
 58.27 
 (25.95)
 - 
 34.49 
 58.27 
Merger expenses 
 - 
 (294.21)
 28.71 
 - 
 - 
 (265.51)
Amortisation of Processing 
fees
 - 
 2.02 
 (2.02)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Fair Valuation 
 - 
 78,103.83 
 (617.22)
 - 
 - 
 77,486.61 
Expenses allowed on 
Payment
 1.99 
 (170.50)
 62.87 
 (0.36)
 1.99 
 (107.99)
Tax - Loss carry forwards
 14.73 
 - 
 6.84 
 - 
 7.89 
 - 
Others (Including MAT 
Credit)
 103.15 
 - 
 0.09 
 - 
 103.05 
 - 
Deferred Tax Assets/
Liabilities
 125.12 
 81,133.26 
 (273.65)
 (0.36)
 144.22 
 80,878.26 
Eureka Forbes Limited
314
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at April 1, 2023
For the year 2023-24
 As at March 31, 2024 
 Deferred 
tax asset 
 Deferred 
tax liability 
 Recognised in 
profit or loss 
 Recognised 
in OCI
 Deferred 
tax asset 
 Deferred 
tax liability 
Deferred Tax Assets/
Liabilities
Property, plant and 
equipment
 (10.63)
 4,637.80 
 120.99 
 - 
 (10.63)
 4,758.79 
Provisions
 5.11 
 (1,378.10)
 55.48 
 - 
 7.43 
 (1,324.94)
Lease Liabilities 
 4.35 
 58.27 
 (4.10)
 - 
 8.45 
 58.27 
Merger expenses 
 - 
 (27.97)
 (310.05)
 - 
 - 
 (294.21)
Amortisation of Processing 
fees
 - 
 8.44 
 (6.42)
 - 
 - 
 2.02 
Fair Valuation 
 - 
 78,721.02 
 (617.19)
 - 
 - 
 78,103.83 
Expenses allowed on 
Payment
 1.99 
 (122.02)
 (48.44)
 (0.04)
 1.99 
 (170.50)
Tax - Loss carry forwards
 23.81 
 - 
 9.08 
 - 
 14.73 
 - 
Others (Including MAT 
Credit)
 102.85 
 - 
 (0.30)
 - 
 103.15 
 - 
Deferred Tax Assets/
Liabilities
 127.48 
 81,897.44 
 (800.95)
 (0.04)
 125.12 
 81,133.26 
44 Income Tax expense
(a) Amounts recognised in profit and loss
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Current income tax
 5,901.97 
 4,084.65 
Earlier year tax
 - 
 (1.30)
Deferred tax expense
 (273.66)
 (800.95)
Tax expense for the year
 5,628.31 
 3,282.40 
(b) Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars 
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Before 
tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Before 
tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
 Net of 
tax 
Items that will not be reclassified to 
profit or loss
Remeasurements of the defined benefit 
plans
 (458.86)
 112.25 
 (346.61)
 (315.04)
 77.76 
 (237.28)
Total
 (458.86)
 112.25 
 (346.61)
 (315.04)
 77.76 
 (237.28)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
315
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
(c) Reconciliation of effective tax rate
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Profit before tax
 22,069.78 
 12,847.37 
Tax using the Company’s domestic tax rate : 25.168%
 5,554.52 
 3,233.43 
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in 
calculating taxable income
 34.50 
 12.83 
Other tax adjustment (including re-assessment of deferred taxes 
post business combination)
 21.18 
 2.28 
Effect of Income that is exempted from Tax
 14.62 
 30.92 
Adjustments for taxes of prior periods 
 - 
 (1.30)
Effect of difference in tax rates in companies (net of impact of 
elimination and adjustments on consolidation)
 3.49 
 4.24 
Total
 5,628.31 
 3,282.40 
 
 The tax rate used for the year 2024-25 and 2023-24 reconciliations above is the corporate tax rate of 25.168%, except 
for Forbes Aquatech Limited, which is subject to a rate of 26%. These rates are payable by corporate entities in India 
on taxable profits under the Indian tax law.
Eureka Forbes Limited
316
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
45  Additional Information as required under Schedule III to the Companies Act 2013, of enterprise consolidated as Subsidiary:
 
The aggregate amount of Assets, Liabilities, Income and Expenses related to the Group’s interests in the Joint Ventures -
 
2024-25
 Particulars 
Name of the Company
 Net Assets, i.e., total assets 
minus total liabilities 
 Share in profit or loss 
 Share in other 
comprehensive income 
 Share in total 
comprehensive income 
 As % of 
consolidated 
net assets 
 ` in Lakhs 
 As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss 
 ` in Lakhs 
 As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income 
 ` in Lakhs 
 As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income 
 ` in 
Lakhs 
Parent 
Eureka Forbes Limited
99.43%  4,38,497.10 
99.31%
 16,328.65 
99.55%
 (343.41)
99.31%
 15,985.24 
Subsidiaries 
Indian 
Forbes Aquatech Limited 
0.24%
 1,053.64 
0.07%
 11.02 
0.29%
 (1.01)
0.06%
 10.00 
Infinite Water Solutions 
Private Limited
0.84%
 3,685.16 
1.05%
 172.34 
0.65%
 (2.22)
1.06%
 170.12 
Foreign
Euro Forbes Limited, Dubai
0.00%
 1.61 
-0.01%
 (1.64)
0.00%
 - 
-0.01%
 (1.64)
Forbes Lux FZE
-0.19%
 (827.82)
-0.34%
 (56.46)
0.00%
 - 
-0.35%
 (56.46)
Adjustment/ elimination on 
consolidation
-0.35%
 (1,540.96)
-0.08%
 (13.87)
-0.49%
 1.69 
-0.08%
 (12.17)
Non-controlling Interest in all 
subsidiaries
0.03%
 121.28 
0.01%
 1.43 
0.00%
 (0.01)
0.01%
 1.42 
Total
100.00%  4,40,990.01 
100.00%
 16,441.47 
100.00%
 (344.96)
100.00%
 16,096.51 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
317
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
 
2023-24
 Particulars 
Name of the Company
 Net Assets, i.e., total assets 
minus total liabilities 
 Share in profit or loss 
 Share in other 
comprehensive income 
 Share in total 
comprehensive income 
 As % of 
consolidated 
net assets 
 ` in Lakhs 
 As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss 
 ` in Lakhs 
 As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income 
 ` in Lakhs 
 As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income 
 ` in 
Lakhs 
Parent 
Eureka Forbes Limited  
(formerly Forbes Enviro 
Solutions Limited) 
99.44%  4,20,302.71 
95.73%
 9,156.85 
110.90%
 (235.88)
95.39%
 8,920.97 
Subsidiaries 
Indian 
Forbes Aquatech Limited 
0.25%
 1,042.19 
0.09%
 8.58 
0.05%
 (0.10)
0.09%
 8.48 
Infinite Water Solutions Pvt 
Limited
0.83%
 3,514.99 
5.85%
 559.31 
0.46%
 (0.97)
5.97%
 558.34 
Foreign
Euro Forbes Limited, Dubai
0.00%
 3.32 
0.00%
 0.38 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 0.38 
Forbes Lux FZCO
-0.18%
 (750.30)
-1.29%
 (123.24)
0.00%
 - 
-1.32%
 (123.24)
Adjustment/ elimination on 
consolidation
-0.37%
 (1,548.54)
-0.40%
 (38.02)
-11.41%
 24.26 
-0.15%
 (13.75)
Non-controlling Interest in all 
subsidiaries
0.03%
 119.97 
0.01%
 1.11 
0.01%
 (0.01)
0.01%
 1.10 
Total
100.00%  4,22,684.34 
100.00%
 9,564.97 
100.00%
 (212.70)
100.00%
 9,352.27 
Eureka Forbes Limited
318
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended on March 31, 2025
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Arvind Uppal 
Chairman
(DIN-00104992)
Pratik R. Pota
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN-00751178)
Gaurav Khandelwal 
Chief Financial Officer 
Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025
Dated : May 16, 2025 
Dated : May 16, 2025 
46 Key Financial Ratios:
Sr. 
No 
Particulars
Numerator 
Denominator 
2024-25
2023-24
% 
Change 
Refer 
Note
1
Current Ratio (times)
Current assets
Current liabilities
 0.84 
 0.64 
 31.34 
a
2
Debt equity ratio 
(times) (Refer Note(b))
Total debt
Equity
 0.01 
 0.01 
 - 
3
Debt service coverage 
ratio (times)
Earnings available 
for debt service
Total debt service
 5.01 
 1.42 
 251.30 
b
4
Return on equity (%)
Net profit after tax 
Average shareholder 
equity
3.81%
2.30%
 65.70 
c
5
Inventory turnover 
ratio (times)
Cost of Goods 
sold 
Average inventory
 3.99 
 3.76 
 6.03 
6
Trade receivables 
turnover ratio (times)
Net sales
Average accounts 
receivables
 15.34 
 16.76 
 (8.47)
7
Trade payable 
turnover ratio (times)
Total purchases 
Average trade 
payables
 5.40 
 4.64 
 16.30 
8
Net capital turnover 
ratio (times)
Sales
Current assets minus 
Current liabilities.
 (15.81)
 (6.36)
 148.79 
d
9
Net profit ratio (%)
Net profit after tax 
Sales
6.75%
4.37%
 54.42 
e
10
Return on capital 
employed (%)
Earnings before 
interest and tax 
divided 
Capital employed 
(refer note (h))
253.97% -164.20%
 (254.67)
f
11
Return on investment 
(%)
Return on 
Investment 
Average total current 
investment
7.03%
6.35%
 10.70 
 
Notes: Explanation for change in the ratio by more than 25%
 
(a) 
Increase in current ratio due to increase in cash generation from business operation and reduction in borrowings.
 
(b) 
Higher earning and repayment of borrowings during current year.
 
(c) 
Higher net profit after tax during the current year with improved efficiency.
 
(d) 
Revenue growth along with higher efficiency on working capital improvement has resulted in an improvement in the ratio.
 
(e) 
Higher net profit after tax during the current year with higher revenue.
 
(f) 
Increase in earnings and reduction in borrowings on account of repayment.
 
(g) 
 The calculation for above ratios is in accordance with formula prescribed by Guidance note on Schedule III issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
 
(h) 
Capital employed = Tangible Net Worth# + Total Debt + Deferred Tax Liability.
 
 
# In order to derive to the tangible net worth, goodwill and other intangible assets have been reduced from the total net worth.
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
CIN: L27310MH2008PLC188478
Registered Office
B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova,
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg,
Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400 013.
Phone No: +91 22 4882 1700 I Fax No: +91 22 4882 1701
Website: www.eurekaforbes.com
