Message from Chairman:
Dear Valued Stakeholders,
It gives me great pleasure to address you all at the onset of the new fiscal year. I would like to start by conveying my gratitude to 
all our stakeholders, partners and employees for their continuous support in our journey. Our mission, as always, is to provide 
reliable, safe and affordable products, to help people live healthier lives.
Pharmaceuticals form the backbone of any nation's healthcare system, not only during global health crises like the pandemic 
but also in the ongoing fight against chronic illnesses. At Gujarat Themis Biosyn Ltd., we are proud to contribute to this critical 
industry by delivering high-quality, affordable healthcare solutions.
The sector's growing significance is reflected in strong domestic and international investments, as well as government policies 
aimed at strengthening pharmaceutical infrastructure. These developments reaffirm our commitment to supporting India’s 
journey towards a healthier, more self-reliant future.
I am glad to share that your Company has performed well over the last financial year and sustained through temporary market 
volatility, building on its growth trajectory.
During the year ended 31st March 2025, we reported Rs. 150.8 crores in revenue, while EBITDA and PAT stood at Rs. 68.8 crores and 
Rs. 48.8 crores, respectively. Despite minor volatility in tenders during some months and power disruptions due to the monsoon, 
we were able to maintain our production levels at optimal utilization levels, on the back of healthy demand.
GTBL has the potential to grow significantly by capitalizing on market opportunities, both domestic and global. Our domain 
expertise and experience in fermentation, established capacities and long-standing customer relationships are some of the 
factors which position us favourably in this industry.
Throughout the year, we have witnessed steady performance — driven by sustained demand, disciplined cost management and 
committed teams ensuring uninterrupted production. This year, our focus has been on laying down the foundation for a future-
ready GTBL.
We are now well into the execution of our capital expenditure (capex) plan, which is progressing across three transformational 
fronts:
First, the commissioning of Phase 1 of our new R&D facility was completed during the year and further expansions are on track. 
Our investment in fermentation-led innovation is beginning to take shape, as we work on developing a new portfolio of molecules 
tailored to market needs.
Second, our dedicated API block, as part of our forward integration endeavour, was completed recently. Validation batches are 
in progress and we aim to commence commercial production soon. This will enable us to manufacture high-potential APIs, 
strengthening our presence in the value chain and enhancing supply security.
Third, additional fermentation capacity is being created within our existing land. This will support scale-up of molecules being 
developed in-house, aligning our production capabilities with our innovation engine.
Consequently, we are aiming to expand our product portfolio substantially with new intermediates as well as APIs.
With a robust foundation in place, continued focus on R&D, new product development and strategic capacity expansion, GTBL is 
well positioned for its next phase of growth. As we look ahead, our mission remains centred around making quality, affordable and 
impactful healthcare solutions made available across India and beyond.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank each member of the GTBL family. I would also like to thank our Customers, Creditors, 
Banks, Financial Institutions and other Stakeholders. Their faith in us and their continued support helps us set and achieves new 
benchmarks.
Yours sincerely,
Sd/-
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel
Chairman
1
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
CORPORATE INFORMATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel (Promoter)
Non-Executive Chairman
Dr. Sachin D. Patel (Promoter)
Non-Executive Director upto 30th June 2025 
(Managing Director w.e.f. 1st July 2025) 
Mr. Siddharth Y. Kusumgar
Independent Director 
Mrs. Kirandeep Kaur Madan
Independent Director
Mr. Hitesh D. Gajaria
Independent Director
Appointed w.e.f. 14th May, 2024
Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan 
Independent Director
Appointed w.e.f. 26th July, 2024
Mr. Nihar Parikh
Additional Independent Director
Appointed w.e.f. 1st August, 2025
Mr. Tapas Guha Thakurata
Chief Executive Officer 
Up to 30th June, 2025
Mr. Bhavik Shah
Chief Financial Officer 
Appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2025
Mr. Vineet Gawankar
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
Appointed w.e.f. 3rd September, 2024
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Mr. Hitesh D. Gajaria
Chairman
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
Member
Mr. Siddharth Y. Kusumgar
Member
Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan
Member – w.e.f. 26th July, 2024
NOMINATION &
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Mr. Hitesh D. Gajaria
Chairman
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
Member
Mr. Siddharth Y. Kusumgar
Member
STAKEHOLDERS 
RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel
Chairman
Dr. Sachin D. Patel 
Member
Mr. Siddharth Y. Kusumgar
Member
CORPORATE SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel
Chairman
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
Member
Mr. Siddharth Y. Kusumgar
Member
BANKERS
Union Bank of India
Bank of Baroda
REGISTERED OFFICE
Plot No. 69-C, G.I.D.C. Industrial Estate,
Vapi- 396 195, Dist-Valsad, Gujarat. 
LISTED ON
BSE Limited
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
w.e.f. 25th February 2025
STATUTORY AUDITOR
M/s. GMJ & Co.
Chartered Accountants
INTERNAL AUDITOR
M/s. R. P. Sardar & Co.
Chartered Accountants
COST AUDITOR
M/s. Raja Dutta & Co. 
Cost Accountants
SECRETARIAL AUDITOR
M/s. KRS AND Co.
Practicing Company Secretaries
REGISTRAR AND
SHARE TRANSFER AGENT
MUFG Intime India Pvt. Ltd.
(Formerly known as Link Intime India 
Pvt. Ltd.)
C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai - 400083.
Tel.: 022-49186000 
Email: rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com
Website: https://in.mpms.mufg.com
CONTENTS
Notice to Members ..................................................................................... 02
Directors’ Report ........................................................................................ 22
Management Discussion & Analysis Report............................................. 39
Report on Corporate Governance............................................................... 43
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) ..................... 64
Auditor’s Report.......................................................................................... 98
Financial Statements................................................................................ 108
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
2
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
NOTICE TO THE MEMBERS
NOTICE is hereby given that the Forty Fourth (44th) Annual General Meeting (the “AGM” or the “Meeting”) of the Members of 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited (the “Company”) will be held on, Friday, 12th September, 2025 at 12:00 Noon at the Registered 
Office of Themis Medicare Limited, at 69/A, GIDC Industrial Estate, Vapi-396195, Dist. Valsad, Gujarat, to transact the following 
businesses:–
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 
2025 together with Reports of the Board of Directors and Auditors thereon. 
2.	
To appoint a Director in place of Dr. Dinesh S. Patel (DIN: 00033273) who retires by rotation and being eligible, offers himself 
for re-appointment. 
3.	
To declare dividend on equity shares for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025.
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
4.	
Ratification of Remuneration of Cost Auditor for the financial year 2025-26:
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Section 148 and all other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 
14 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof, 
for the time being in force) remuneration of Rs. 50,000 (Rupees Fifty Thousand only) per annum, plus applicable taxes 
and reimbursement of out of pocket expenses (at actuals), as recommended by the Audit Committee and approved by the 
Board of Directors of the Company, payable to M/s. Raja Dutta & Co., Cost Accountants, (Firm Registration No. 101555) 
for conducting the audit of the cost accounting records maintained by the Company in respect of its fermentation-based 
pharmaceutical intermediates and API manufacturing activities for the financial year ending 31st March, 2026 be and is 
hereby ratified.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any one of the Directors of the Company or Company Secretary be and is hereby authorised to 
do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be necessary to give effect to this Resolution.”
5.	
Appointment of Secretarial Auditor:
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provision of Section 204(1) and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Rule 9 of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 as amended 
and Regulation 24A(1)(b) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and based on 
the recommendation of the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company, consent of the Members of the 
Company be and is hereby accorded for appointment of M/s. KRS AND Co., Practicing Company Secretaries (Unique Code: 
S2017MH469000 and Peer Review No. 3967/2023) represented by CS Ketan Ravindra Shirwadkar, having Membership 
No. A37829 and COP No. 15386 as the Secretarial Auditor of the Company, to hold office for a period of 5 (five) consecutive 
financial years to undertake Secretarial Audit of the Company as required under the Act and Listing Regulations from the 
Financial Year ending 31st March, 2026 till the financial Year ending 31st  March, 2030 on such terms & conditions including 
remuneration, as may be determined by the Board, based on the recommendation of Audit Committee;
	
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any one of the Directors of the Company or the Company Secretary be and   is hereby severally 
authorized to file necessary forms with Registrar of Companies and to do all such acts, deeds and things, as may be 
necessary, to give effect to the above said resolution and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.”
6.	
Appointment and re-designation of Dr. Sachin D. Patel (DIN: 00033353) as Managing Director of the Company:
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to provisions of sections 196, 197, 198, 203 and all other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014 (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force) and Schedule V of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and in terms of Articles of Association of the Company and such other approvals, permissions 
and sanctions, as may be required and based on the recommendations of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and 
3
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
the unanimous approval granted by the Board of Directors of the Company for the appointment, the consent of Members 
of the Company be and is hereby accorded to the appointment and re-designation of Dr. Sachin D. Patel (DIN: 00033353) 
as the Managing Director of the Company for a period of 5 (five) years with effect from 1st July, 2025 upon the terms and 
conditions including receiving remuneration and commission as the Managing Director of the Company as set out in the 
explanatory statement annexed to this Notice convening the AGM.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT where, in any financial year, during the tenure of office of Dr. Sachin D. Patel, the Company has 
no profits or its profits are inadequate, the Company shall pay remuneration to Dr. Sachin D. Patel as specified above, based 
on the approval of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company and subject to 
obtaining necessary approvals, as may be required in accordance with the provisions of Sections 197, 198 and Schedule V 
of the Act or any amendments thereto as may be made from time to time.”
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board and / or Nomination & Remuneration Committee, be and is hereby in its absolute 
discretion is authorized to vary / alter / modify the terms and conditions of appointment, including the remuneration & 
commission payable to Dr. Sachin D. Patel, provided that the remuneration and commission payable to Dr. Sachin D. Patel shall 
be in accordance with and within the limits specified under Sections 197, 198 and Schedule V of the Act or any amendments 
thereto as may be made from time to time.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorized to do all such acts, deeds, 
matters and things as may be considered necessary, desirable or expedient to give effect to this resolution.”
7.	
Payment of Commission to Dr. Dinesh S. Patel (DIN: 00033273) Non-Executive Chairman:
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following Resolution as a Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 197, 198 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 17(6) of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (“Listing Regulations”) as amended, the Articles 
of Association of the Company, the Company’s Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other 
employees and based on performance evaluation and the recommendation of Nomination & Remuneration Committee and 
approval of the Board of Directors at their respective meetings held on 20th May, 2025, read with the Explanatory Statement 
relating hereto, approval of the Members be and is hereby accorded for payment of commission of Rs. 66,00,000 (Rupees 
Sixty Six Lakhs only) to Dr. Dinesh S. Patel (DIN: 00033273), Non-Executive Chairman of the Company.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any one of the Directors and/ or Company Secretary of the Company be and is hereby severally 
authorized to take necessary steps to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things for and on behalf of the Company as may 
be necessary to give effect to this resolution.”
8.	
Payment of Commission to Dr. Sachin D. Patel (DIN: 00033353) Non-Executive Director:
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following Resolution as a Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 197, 198 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 17(6) 
of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended, the Articles of Association of the 
Company, the Company’s Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other employees and based on 
performance evaluation and the recommendation of Nomination & Remuneration Committee and approval of the Board of 
Directors at their respective meetings held on 20th  May, 2025, read with the Explanatory Statement relating hereto, approval 
of the Members be and is hereby accorded for payment of commission of Rs. 66,00,000 (Rupees Sixty Six Lakhs only) to Dr. 
Sachin D. Patel (DIN: 00033353), Non- Executive Director of the Company.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any one of the Directors of the Company and/ or Company Secretary of the Company be and is 
hereby severally authorised to take necessary steps to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things for and on behalf of the 
Company as may be necessary to give effect to this resolution.”
9.	
Appointment of Mr. Nihar Ajay Parikh (DIN: 02475787) as an Independent Director of the Company:
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following resolution as a Special    Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT, pursuant to the provisions of Sections of 149, 150 and 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) read with 
Schedule IV and other applicable provisions of the Act, the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 
2014 made thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof from time to time), Regulation 17 and 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
4
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
applicable provisions of Listing Regulations and in accordance to the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company 
and based on the recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors respectively, 
Mr. Nihar Ajay Parikh (DIN: 02475787) who was appointed as an Additional Director designated as an Independent Director 
of the Company, pursuant to the provisions of Section 161(1) of the Act w.e.f. 1st August, 2025 and who qualifies for being 
appointed as an Independent Director and who has submitted a declaration that he meets the criteria of independence 
under Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Listing Regulations and in respect of whom the Company 
has received a notice in writing under Section 160(1) of the Act from a member proposing his candidature for the office of 
Director, be and is hereby appointed as an Independent Director of the Company, not liable to retire by rotation, to hold office 
for a first term of 5 (five) consecutive years with effect from 1st August, 2025 till 31st July, 2030 and that he shall not be liable 
to retire by rotation.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any one of the Directors of the Company or Company Secretary be and is hereby authorized to 
sign, execute, submit and file the relevant forms, documents etc. with the office of the Registrar of Companies as per the 
applicable provisions of the Act.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be 
deemed necessary to give effect to this resolution.”
10.	 Payment of Commission to Independent Directors:
	
To consider & if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following resolution as a Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 197 and 198 read with Schedule V thereof and other applicable 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 ('the Act') [including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the 
time being in force] and Regulation 17(6) of the Listing Regulations, as amended from time to time, Articles of Association of 
the Company and in terms of recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors, the 
consent of the Members be and is hereby accorded to the Company for payment of commission to the Independent Directors 
of the Company (i.e., Directors other than the Managing Director and/or Whole Time Directors) to be determined by the Board 
of Directors for each of such Independent Director for each financial year and distributed between such Directors in such a 
manner as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine within the overall maximum limit of 1% (one percent) of 
the net profits of the Company for each financial year commencing from 1st April, 2024 for a term of 5 (five) years computed 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 198 of the Act or such other percentage as may be specified by the Act from 
time to time in this regard.”
	
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the above profit related commission shall be in addition to fees payable to the Director(s) for 
attending the meetings of the Board or Committees thereof or for any other purpose whatsoever as may be decided by the 
Board of Directors and re-imbursement of expenses for participation in the Board and other meetings.”
 
Registered Office
69/C, GIDC Industrial Estate,
Vapi-396 195 Dist. Valsad, Gujarat
CIN: L24230GJ1981PLC004878
Place: Mumbai
Date: 1st August, 2025
By Order of the Board of Directors
Sd/-
Vineet Gawankar
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A55504
              
5
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
NOTES: 
1.	
PURSUANT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013, A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE AT THE AGM 
IS ENTITLED TO APPOINT A PROXY TO ATTEND AND VOTE ON HIS/HER BEHALF AND THE PROXY NEED NOT BE A MEMBER 
OF THE COMPANY. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of proxies by the Members will be available for the AGM and 
hence the proxy form and attendance slip are annexed to this Notice. 
2.	
The Instrument appointing the Proxy, duly completed, stamped and signed, should reach the Registered Office of the 
Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time of the Annual General Meeting. Members are requested to 
note that a person can act as a proxy on behalf of members not exceeding fifty and holding in the aggregate not more than 
ten percent of the total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights. In case a proxy is proposed to be appointed by 
a member holding more than 10% (ten percent) of the total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights, then such 
proxy shall not act as a proxy for any other person or shareholder.
3.	
Corporate members intending to send their authorized representatives to attend the Meeting are requested to send to the 
Company a certified true copy of the Board Resolution authorizing their representative to attend and vote on their behalf at 
the Meeting.
4.	
In case of joint holders attending the Meeting, only such joint holder who is higher in the order of names will be entitled to 
vote.
5.	
The Company has engaged the services of Central Depository Services Limited (CDSL), to provide e-voting facility for the 
AGM.
6.	
At the 41st AGM, M/s. GMJ & Co., Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No. 103429W) were re-appointed as Statutory 
Auditors of the Company for a period of 5 years until the conclusion of the 46th AGM of the Company.
	
The ratification of their appointment pursuant to Section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) is not required in terms 
of notification no. SO 1833(E) dated 7th May, 2018 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and accordingly, the item has 
not been included in the Ordinary Business of this Notice.
7.	
Corporate/Institutional Members (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy (PDF/JPG 
Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority letter etc. with attested specimen signature of the duly authorized 
signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail to ketan@krsandco.in with a copy marked to 
cfoassist@themismedicare.com Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload their 
Board Resolution / Power of Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by clicking on “Upload Board Resolution / Authority Letter” 
displayed under “e-Voting” tab in their login. 
8.	
In terms of Section 152 of the Act, Dr. Dinesh S. Patel (DIN: 00033273), Director of the Company, retires by rotation at the 
ensuing AGM and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. The Board of Directors of the Company recommends his 
re-appointment. 
9.	
The details of the Director seeking appointment / re-appointment under item no. 2, 6 & 9 of this Notice are annexed hereto in 
terms of Regulation 36(3) of the Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard 2 on General Meetings issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”). 
10.	 The Explanatory Statement setting out the material facts pursuant to Section 102 of the Act, concerning the Special Business 
to be transacted at the Meeting, as mentioned in the Notice, is annexed hereto and forms part of this Notice.
11.	 Relevant documents referred to in the accompanying Notice and the Statements are open for inspection by the members 
at the Registered Office of the Company during business hours on all working days (except Saturday, Sunday and National 
Holidays) from the date hereof, up to the date of the Meeting.
12.	 Any person, who acquires shares of the Company and becomes a member of the Company after dispatch of the Notice and 
holding shares as on the cut-off date i.e. Friday, 5th September, 2025, may obtain the login ID and password by sending a 
request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
6
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
13.	 Pursuant to the acquisition of Link Group by Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corporation, accordingly the name of RTA of 
the Company is changed from Link Intime India Private Limited to MUFG Intime India Private Limited with effect from 31st 
December, 2024.
14.	 To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are advised to exercise due diligence and notify the Company of any change 
in address or demise of any Member as soon as possible. Members are also advised to not leave their demat account(s) 
dormant for long. Periodic statement of holdings should be obtained from the concerned DP and holding should be verified 
from time to time. 
15.	 Members are requested to note that, dividends if not encashed for a consecutive period of 7 years are liable to be transferred 
to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (‘IEPF’). The shares in respect of such unclaimed dividends are also liable to 
be transferred to the demat account of the IEPF Authority. In view of this, Members are requested to claim their dividends 
from the Company, within the stipulated timeline.
16.	 The Members whose unclaimed dividends and/or shares have been transferred to IEPF, may contact the Company or RTA 
and submit the required documents for issue of Entitlement Letter. The Members can attach the Entitlement Letter and other 
required documents and file the Form IEPF-5 form for claiming the dividend and/ or shares via www.iepf.gov.in
17.	 To support the ‘Green Initiative’, Members who have not yet registered their email addresses are requested to register the 
same with their DPs in case the shares are held by them in electronic form and with the Company’s RTA in case the shares 
are held by them in physical form.
18.	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has mandated the submission of Permanent Account Number (PAN) by 
every participant in securities market. Members holding shares in electronic form are, therefore, requested to submit their 
PAN to their Depository Participants with whom they are maintaining their demat accounts. Members holding shares in 
physical form can submit their PAN to the Company / MUFG Intime India Private Limited (Formerly known as Link Intime 
India Private Limited, Company's Registrar and Share Transfer Agent / RTA) and complete their Know Your Client (“KYC”) 
formalities as mandated by law. Members, who have not registered their e-mail addresses so far, are requested to register 
their e-mail address for receiving all communication including Annual Report, Notices, Circulars, etc. from the Company 
electronically.
19.	 In terms of relaxations granted by SEBI vide Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 dated October 3, 2024 
sending hard copy of the Annual Report for the financial year 2024-25 to shareholders who have not registered their email 
IDs with the Company/RTA/Depository has been dispensed with. Therefore, Annual Report 2024-25 including Notice shall 
be sent by email to those shareholders whose email ids are registered with the Company/RTA/Depository. Further, a letter 
providing a weblink and QR code for accessing the Notice of the AGM and Annual Report for the Financial Year 2024-25 
will be sent to those shareholders who have not registered their email address. Members may note that the Notice and 
Annual Report 2024-25 will also be available on the Company's website www.gtbl.in, website of the Stock Exchanges i.e. 
BSE Limited at www.bseindia.com and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.nseindia.com and on the website 
of CDSL at www.evotingindia.com. Members who have not registered their email address with the Company can register 
the same by following the procedure as mentioned below in point 35. Company shall send hard copy of the Annual Report 
2024-25 to the members who request for the same in writing.
20.	 As per Regulation 40 of SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, securities of listed companies can be transferred only in 
dematerialized form with effect from 1st April, 2019 in view of this and to eliminate all risks associated with physical shares 
and for ease of portfolio management, members holding shares in physical form are requested to consider converting their 
holdings to dematerialized form. Members can contact the Company or Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agent for 
assistance in this regard.
	
Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated 
January 25, 2022 has mandated the listed companies to issue securities in dematerialized form only, while processing 
investor service requests, service requests viz. Issue of duplicate securities certificate; renewal/exchange of securities 
certificate; endorsement; sub-division/ splitting of securities certificate; consolidation of securities certificates/ folios, 
transmission and transposition.
7
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
21.	 Further SEBI vide its circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/ CIR/2022/65 dated May 18, 2022 has simplified the 
procedure and standardized the format of documents for transmission of securities. Accordingly, members are requested 
to make service requests to the Company through email at cfoassist@themismedicare.com or by writing to the Company’s 
RTA at rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com  by submitting a duly filled and signed Form ISR-4 & ISR-5, as the case may be. 
The said forms can be downloaded from the Company’s website at www.gtbl.in. SEBI, vide its circular dated 3rd November, 
2021 (subsequently amended by circulars dated 14th December, 2021, 16th March, 2023 and 17th November, 2023) mandated 
that the security holders (holding securities in physical form), whose folio(s) do not have PAN or contact details or mobile 
number or bank account details or specimen signature updated, shall be eligible for any dividend payment in respect of 
such folios, only through electronic mode with effect from 1st April, 2024 only upon furnishing the PAN, contact details 
including mobile number, bank account details and specimen signature.
22.	 Members are requested to submit PAN, or intimate all changes pertaining to their bank details, mandates, nominations, 
power of attorney, change of address, change of name, e-mail address, contact numbers, specimen signature (as applicable) 
etc., to their Depository Participant (“DP”) in case of holding in dematerialized form or to Company’s RTA through Form ISR-
1, Form ISR-2 and Form ISR-3 (as applicable) available at www.gtbl.in in case of holdings in physical form.
23.	 As per the provisions of the Act and applicable SEBI Circular, members holding shares in physical form may file nomination 
in the prescribed Form SH- 13 with RTA or make changes to their nomination details through Form SH-14 and Form ISR-3. 
In respect of shares held in dematerialized form, the nomination form may be filed with the respective DP. For relevant forms, 
please visit the Company’s website at www.gtbl.in.
24.	 Members holding shares in physical form, in identical order of names, in more than one folio are requested to send to the 
Company’s RTA, the details of such folios together with the share certificates along with the requisite KYC documents for 
consolidating their holdings in one folio. Requests for consolidation of share certificates shall be processed in dematerialized 
form.
25.	 SEBI vide Circular no. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/ CIR/2023/131 dated July 31, 2023 (updated as on December 20, 2023) 
has specified that a Member shall first take up his/her/their grievance with the listed entity by lodging a complaint directly 
with the concerned listed entity and if the grievance is not redressed satisfactorily, the member may, in accordance with the 
SCORES guidelines, escalate the same through the SCORES Portal in accordance with the process laid out therein. Only after 
exhausting all available options for resolution of the grievance, if the member is not satisfied with the outcome, he/she/ they 
can initiate dispute resolution through the Online Dispute Resolution (“ODR”) Portal. Members are requested to take note of 
the same.
26.	 The Company has notified closure of Register of Members and Share Transfer Books from Saturday, 6th September, 2025 
till Friday, 12th September, 2025 (both days inclusive) for the purpose of AGM and determining the names of the Members 
eligible for receipt of dividend for the financial year 2024-25, if declared at the AGM. 
27.	 If the dividend, as recommended by the Board of Directors, is approved at the AGM, payment of such dividend, subject to 
deduction of tax at source, will be made within 30 days of the AGM i.e. on/after 12th September, 2025 as under:
a.	
To all Beneficial Owners in respect of shares held in dematerialized form as per the data as may be made available by 
the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and the CDSL, collectively “Depositories” whose names appear as 
beneficial owners as at the end of the business hours on Friday, 5th September, 2025.
b.	
To all Members in respect of shares held in physical form after giving effect to valid transmission or transposition 
requests lodged with the Company as of the close of business hours on Friday, 5th September, 2025.
c.	
Dividend warrants / demand drafts will be dispatched to the registered address of the shareholders who have not 
updated their bank account details. To avoid delay in receiving dividend, members are requested to update their KYC 
with their depositories (where shares are held in dematerialized mode) and with the Company’s Registrar and Transfer 
Agent (where shares are held in physical mode) to receive the dividend directly into their bank account on the payout 
date.
28.	 Members may note that the Income Tax Act, 1961, (“the IT Act”) as amended by the Finance Act, 2020, mandates that 
dividends paid or distributed by a Company after 1st April, 2020 shall be taxable in the hands of members. The Company shall 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
8
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
therefore be required to deduct tax at source (TDS) at the time of making the payment of dividend. In order to enable us to 
determine the appropriate TDS rate as applicable, members are requested to submit the following documents in accordance 
with the provisions of the IT Act.
29.	 For Resident Shareholders:
	
Taxes shall be deducted at source under Section 194 of the IT Act as follows:
Members having Valid PAN
10% or as notified by the Government of India
Members not having PAN /Valid PAN
20% or as notified by the Government of India
	
No tax shall be deducted on the dividend payable to a resident individual if the total dividend to be received by them during 
Financial Year 2024-25 does not exceed 5,000 and also in cases where members provide valid Form 15G / Form 15H subject 
to conditions specified in the IT Act. Resident shareholders may also submit any other document as prescribed under the IT 
Act to claim a lower/NIL  withholding tax. PAN is mandatory for members providing Form 15G/15H or any other document 
as mentioned above.
	
For Non-resident shareholders:
	
For non-resident shareholders, taxes are required to be withheld in accordance with the provisions of Section 195 and other 
applicable sections of the IT Act, at the rates in force. The withholding tax shall be at the rate of 20% (plus applicable 
surcharge and cess) or as notified by the Government of India on the amount of dividend payable. However, as per Section 
90 of the IT Act, non-resident shareholders have the option to be governed by the provisions of the Double Tax Avoidance 
Agreement (DTAA) between India and the country of tax residence of such shareholders if they are more beneficial to them. 
For this purpose, i.e. to avail the benefits under the DTAA, non-resident shareholders need to provide the following:
•	
Copy of the PAN card allotted by the Indian Income Tax authorities duly attested by the shareholder.
•	
Copy of Tax Residency Certificate (TRC) for the financial year 2024-25 obtained from the revenue authorities of the 
country of tax residence, duly attested by shareholder.
•	
Self-declaration in Form 10F issued by the Central Board of Direct Tax. Form 10F can be obtained electronically through 
the e-filing portal of the income tax website at https://www.incometax.gov.in/iec/foportal 
•	
Self-declaration by the shareholder of having no permanent establishment in India in accordance with the applicable tax 
treaty.
•	
Self-declaration of beneficial ownership by the non-resident shareholder.
•	
Any other documents as prescribed under the IT Act for lower withholding of taxes if applicable, duly attested by 
shareholder.
	
Kindly note that the Company is not obligated to apply beneficial tax treaty rates at the time of tax deduction / withholding 
on dividend amounts. Application of beneficial rate of tax treaty for the purpose of withholding taxes shall depend upon 
completeness and satisfactory review by the Company of the documents submitted by the non-resident shareholder. 
	
In case of Foreign Institutional Investors/ Foreign Portfolio Investors, tax will be deducted under Section 196D of the IT Act 
@ 20% (plus applicable surcharge and cess).
	
The aforementioned documents are required to be submitted to Registrar and Share Transfer Agent or the Company before 
Friday, 5th September, 2025.
30.	 A route map showing direction to reach the venue of the 44th Annual General Meeting is given at the end of the Notice as per 
the requirement of Secretarial Standard- 2 on General Meeting.
31.	 The Board of Directors of the Company has appointed Mr. Ketan R. Shirwadkar (ACS:37829; CP 15386) Proprietor of 
M/s. KRS AND CO., Practicing Company Secretaries, as Scrutinizer to scrutinize the remote e-voting and voting process at 
meeting in a fair and transparent manner and he has communicated his willingness to be appointed and will be available for 
same purpose.
9
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
32.	 The Scrutinizer shall within a period of two working days from the conclusion of the AGM, submit his report of the votes cast 
in favour or against, through electronic voting and polling process to the Chairman or to any other person as authorized by 
the Chairman. The results declared along with the consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report shall be placed on the website of the 
Company and on the website of CDSL. The result shall be simultaneously be communicated to the BSE Limited at www.
bseindia.com and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.nseindia.com 
33.	 All correspondence relating to transmission of shares, change of address, dividend mandates etc. quoting their folio 
numbers should be sent to the Registrar and  Transfer Agent only at their address: MUFG Intime (India) Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Link Intime (India) Private Limited), C-101, 1st Floor, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West),Mumbai 
400083, Maharashtra, Tel: +91 22 49186200; Fax: +91 2224918619 Website: https://in.mpms.mufg.com/ Email: rnt.
helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com 
34.	 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the  Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended) and Regulation 44 of SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company is providing facility of remote e-voting 
to its Members through CDSL e-voting system at www.evotingindia.com in respect of the business to be transacted at the 
AGM. 
35.	 The Instructions of Shareholders for Remote E-Voting:
	
Step 1: 	 Access through Depositories CDSL/NSDL e-Voting system in case of individual      shareholders holding shares in 
demat mode.  
	
Step 2: 	 Access through CDSL e-Voting system in case of shareholders holding shares in physical mode and non-individual 
shareholders in demat mode. 
(i)	
The voting period begins on Tuesday, 9th September, 2025 at 9:00 a.m. and ends on Thursday, 11th September, 2025 at 
5:00 p.m. during this period, Shareholders’ of the Company holding shares either in physical form or in dematerialized 
form, as on the cut-off date (record date) of Friday, 5th September, 2025 may cast their vote electronically. The e-voting 
module shall be disabled by CDSL for voting thereafter.
(ii)	 Shareholders who have already voted prior to the meeting date would not be entitled to vote at the Meeting venue.
(iii)	 Pursuant to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated 09.12.2020, under Regulation 44 of Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, listed entities are 
required to provide remote e-voting facility to its shareholders, in respect of all shareholders’ resolutions. However, it has 
been observed that the participation by the public non-institutional shareholders/retail shareholders is at a negligible 
level.	
	
Currently, there are multiple e-voting service providers (ESPs) providing e-voting facility to listed entities in India. This 
necessitates registration on various ESPs and maintenance of multiple user IDs and passwords by the shareholders.	
	
In order to increase the efficiency of the voting process, pursuant to a public consultation, it has been decided to enable 
e-voting to all the demat account holders, by way of a single login credential, through their demat accounts/ websites of 
Depositories/ Depository Participants. Demat account holders would be able to cast their vote without having to register 
again with the ESPs, thereby, not only facilitating seamless authentication but also enhancing ease and convenience of 
participating in e-voting process.
	
Step 1: Access through Depositories CDSL/NSDL e-Voting system in case of individual shareholders holding shares in 
demat mode.
(iv)	 In terms of SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided 
by Listed Companies, Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat 
account maintained with Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile 
number and email Id in their demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility. 
	
Pursuant to abovesaid SEBI Circular, Login method for e-Voting for Individual shareholders holding securities in Demat 
mode CDSL/NSDL is given below:
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
10
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities 
in Demat mode with 
CDSL Depository
1)	
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing user 
id and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further 
authentication. The users to login to Easi / Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & My Easi New (Token) Tab. 
2)	
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for 
eligible companies where the evoting is in progress as per the information provided by 
company. On clicking the evoting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the 
e-Voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining 
virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is also links provided to 
access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting 
service providers’ website directly.
3)	
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL 
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login & My Easi New (Token) Tab and then click 
on registration option.
4)	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account 
Number and PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. 
The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as 
recorded in the Demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see 
the e-Voting option where the evoting is in progress and also able to directly access the 
system of all e-Voting Service Providers. 
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities 
in demat mode with 
NSDL Depository
1)	
If you are already registered for NSDL IDeAS facility, please visit the e-Services website of 
NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com either 
on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Services is launched, 
click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ 
section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID and Password. After 
successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services. Click on “Access 
to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on 
company name or e-Voting service provider name and you will be re-directed to e-Voting 
service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period.
2)	
If the user is not  registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS “Portal or click at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
3)	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the 
home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available 
under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your 
User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number hold with NSDL), Password/OTP 
and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you 
will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on 
company name or e-Voting service provider name and you will be redirected to e-Voting 
service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period.
4)	
For OTP based login you can click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/
evotinglogin.jsp. You will have to enter your 8-digit DP ID,8-digit Client Id, PAN No., 
Verification code and generate OTP. Enter the OTP received on registered email id/mobile 
number and click on login. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL 
Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting 
service provider name and you will be re-directed to e-Voting service provider website for 
casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting 
during the meeting.
11
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
(holding securities 
in demat mode) 
login through 
their Depository 
Participants (DP)
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository 
Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. After Successful login, you will 
be able to see e-Voting option. Once you click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to 
NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting 
feature. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider name and you will be redirected 
to e-Voting service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period.
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID / Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website.
	
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login 
through Depository i.e. CDSL and NSDL
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in Demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by 
sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free 
no. 1800 21 09911  
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in Demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by 
sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at: 022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 
2499 7000 
	
Step 2: Access through CDSL e-Voting system in case of shareholders holding shares in physical mode and non-
individual shareholders in demat mode.
	
Login method for Remote e-Voting for Physical shareholders and shareholders other than individual holding in Demat 
form.
a)	
The shareholders should log on to the e-voting website www.evotingindia.com.
b)	
Click on “Shareholders” module.
c)	
Now enter your User ID
•	
For CDSL: 16 digits beneficiary ID
•	
For NSDL: 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digits Client ID,
•	
Shareholders holding shares in Physical Form should enter Folio Number registered with the Company.
d)	
Next enter the Image Verification as displayed and Click on Login.
e)	
If you are holding shares in demat form and had logged on to www.evotingindia.com and voted on an earlier 
e-voting of any company, then your existing password is to be used.
f)	
If you are a first-time user follow the steps given below:
For Physical shareholders and other than individual shareholders holding shares in Demat.
PAN
Enter your 10-digit alpha-numeric *PAN issued by Income Tax Department (Applicable for both 
demat shareholders as well as physical shareholders)
•	
Shareholders who have not updated their PAN with the Company/Depository Participant are 
requested to use the sequence number sent by Company/RTA or contact Company/RTA.
Dividend Bank 
Details 
OR 
Date of Birth 
(DOB)
Enter the Dividend Bank Details or Date of Birth (in dd/mm/yyyy format) as recorded in your demat 
account or in the company records in order to login.
•	
If both the details are not recorded with the depository or company, please enter the member 
id / folio number in the Dividend Bank details field.
(iv)	 After entering these details appropriately, click on “SUBMIT” tab.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
12
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
(v)	 Shareholders holding shares in physical form will then directly reach the Company selection screen. However, 
shareholders holding shares in demat form will now reach ‘Password Creation’ menu wherein they are required to 
mandatorily enter their login password in the new password field. Kindly note that this password is to be also used 
by the demat holders for voting for resolutions of any other company on which they are eligible to vote, provided that 
company opts for e-voting through CDSL platform. It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any 
other person and take utmost care to keep your password confidential.
(vi)	 For shareholders holding shares in physical form, the details can be used only for e-voting on the resolutions contained 
in this Notice.
(vii)	 Click on the EVSN for the relevant <Company Name> on which you choose to vote.
(viii)	On the voting page, you will see “RESOLUTION DESCRIPTION” and against the same the option “YES/NO” for voting. 
Select the option YES or NO as desired. The option YES implies that you assent to the Resolution and option NO implies 
that you dissent to the Resolution.
(ix)	 Click on the “RESOLUTIONS FILE LINK” if you wish to view the entire Resolution details.
(x)	 After selecting the resolution, you have decided to vote on, click on “SUBMIT”. A confirmation box will be displayed. If 
you wish to confirm your vote, click on “OK”, else to change your vote, click on “CANCEL” and accordingly modify your 
vote.
(xi)	 Once you “CONFIRM” your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
(xii)	 You can also take a print of the votes cast by clicking on “Click here to print” option on the Voting page.
(xiii)	If a demat account holder has forgotten the login password then Enter the User ID and the image verification code and 
click on Forgot Password and enter the details as prompted by the system.
(xiv)	There is also an optional provision to upload BR/POA if any uploaded, which will be made available to scrutinizer for 
verification.
(xv)	 Additional Facility for Non - Individual Shareholders and Custodians –For Remote Voting only.
•	
Non-Individual shareholders (i.e. other than Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) and Custodians are required to log on to 
www.evotingindia.com and register themselves in the “Corporates” module.
•	
A scanned copy of the Registration Form bearing the stamp and sign of the entity should be emailed to helpdesk.
evoting@cdslindia.com.
•	
After receiving the login details a Compliance User should be created using the admin login and password. The 
Compliance User would be able to link the account(s) for which they wish to vote on.
•	
The list of accounts linked in the login will be mapped automatically and can be delink in case of any wrong 
mapping.
•	
It is Mandatory that, a scanned copy of the Board Resolution and Power of Attorney (POA) which they have issued 
in favour of the Custodian, if any, should be uploaded in PDF format in the system for the scrutinizer to verify the 
same.
•	
Alternatively, Non-Individual shareholders are required mandatory to send the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority 
letter etc. together with attested specimen signature of the duly authorized signatory who are authorized to vote, 
to the Scrutinizer and to the Company at the email address viz; cfoassist@themismedicare.com, if they have voted 
from individual tab and not uploaded same in the CDSL e-voting system for the scrutinizer to verify the same.
	
PROCESS FOR THOSE SHAREHOLDERS WHOSE EMAIL/MOBILE NO. ARE NOT REGISTERED WITH THE COMPANY / 
DEPOSITORIES.
1.	
For Physical shareholders- please provide necessary details like Folio No., name of shareholder, scanned copy of the 
share certificate (front and back), PAN (self-attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self-attested scanned copy 
of Aadhar Card) by email to Company/RTA email id i.e. cfoassist@themismedicare.com or rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.
mufg.com 
13
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
2.	
For Demat shareholders - Please update your email id and mobile no. with your respective Depository Participant (DP) 
3.	
For Individual Demat shareholders – Please update your email id and mobile no. with your respective Depository 
Participant (DP) which is mandatory while e-Voting and joining virtual meetings through Depository.
	
If you have any queries or issues regarding e-Voting from the CDSL e-Voting System, you can write an email to helpdesk.
evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 1800 22 55 33.
	
All grievances connected with the facility for voting by electronic means may be addressed to Mr. Rakesh Dalvi, Sr. Manager, 
(CDSL,) Central Depository Services (India) Limited, A Wing, 25th Floor, Marathon Futurex, Mafatlal Mill Compounds, N M 
Joshi Marg, Lower Parel (East), Mumbai - 400013 or send an email to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or call at toll free no. 
1800 22 55 33.
36.	 The voting right of Shareholders shall be in proportion to their shares in the paid-up equity capital of the Company as on 
cut-off date i.e. Friday, 5th September, 2025.
37.	 The facility for voting through ballot paper (Poll) shall be made available at the AGM and the Members attending the Meeting 
who have not cast their vote by remote e-voting shall be able to exercise their right at the Meeting through ballot paper.
	
The Members who have cast their vote by remote e-voting prior to the AGM may also attend the AGM but shall not be 
entitled to cast their vote again.
38.	 In terms of Section 72 of the Act read with the applicable rules thereto, every holder of shares in the Company may nominate, 
in the prescribed manner, a person to whom his / her shares in the Company shall vest, in the event of his / her death. 
Nomination forms can be obtained from the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent. Members holding shares in electronic form 
may contact their respective Depository Participant(s) for availing this facility.
39.	 Pursuant to Section 107 of the Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, 
voting through poll shall also be made available to those members who attends the AGM and have not already cast their 
vote by remote e-voting.
 	
Registered Office
69/C, GIDC Industrial Estate,
Vapi-396 195 Dist. Valsad,
Gujarat
CIN: L24230GJ1981PLC004878
Place: Mumbai
Date: 1st August, 2025
By Order of the Board of Directors
Sd/-
Vineet Gawankar
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A55504
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
14
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
ANNEXURE TO NOTICE
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 (1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 (“the Act”)
The following Statement sets out all material facts relating to the Special Business mentioned in the accompanying Notice:
Item No. 4: 
Ratification of Remuneration of Cost Auditor for the financial year 2025-26:
In pursuance of Section 148 of the Act and Rule 14 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the Company is required 
to appoint a Cost Auditor to audit the cost accounting records maintained by the Company in respect of its fermentation-based 
pharmaceutical intermediates and API manufacturing activities of the Company.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee at its meeting held on 20th May, 2025, the Board has considered and approved 
the appointment of M/s. Raja Dutta & Co., Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No. 101555) as the Cost Auditor for the financial 
year 2025-26 at a remuneration of Rs. 50,000 (Rupees Fifty Thousand Only) per annum plus applicable taxes and reimbursement 
of out of pocket expenses, if any, in connection with the Cost Audit of the Company. The said remuneration needs to be ratified 
by the Members.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their relatives are concerned or interested, financially or 
otherwise in this Resolution.
The Board recommends the above Ordinary Resolution for passing by the Members.
Item No. 5:
Appointment of Secretarial Auditor:
The Board of Directors, based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, at its meeting held on 20th May, 2025, has 
recommended the appointment of M/s. KRS AND CO., Practicing Company Secretaries (Unique Code: S2017MH469000 and 
Peer Review No. 3967/2023) as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company, in accordance with the provisions of Section 204 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 24A of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, for a term 
of 5 (Five) consecutive financial years starting from the conclusion of this 44th Annual General Meeting till the conclusion of the 
49th Annual General Meeting, subject to the approval of the Members at this Annual General Meeting to conduct Secretarial Audit 
of the Company from the Financial Year ending 31st March, 2026 till the Financial Year ending 31st March, 2030.
M/s. KRS AND CO., has provided their consent to act the as Secretarial Auditors of the Company for the proposed period of 
appointment. They have further confirmed their eligibility, qualifications and confirmation on non-disqualification referred to in 
Regulation 24A of SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015.
The details required to be disclosed under provisions of Regulation 36(5) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 are as under:
1. 	
The remuneration to be paid to the Secretarial Auditors for issuing the Secretarial Audit Report and other reports shall be 
Rs. 1,25,000 (Rupees One Lakh Twenty Five Thousand) per annum plus applicable taxes.
2.	
The Audit Committee and the Board of Directors have approved and recommended the aforesaid proposal for approval of 
Members taking into account the Secretarial Auditors’ knowledge, expertise and industry experience and proposed fee 
is after taking into consideration the time and efforts required to be put in by the Secretarial Auditor, which is in line with 
industry standards.
The payment for services in the nature of certifications and other professional work as permitted by applicable law will be in 
addition to the Secretarial Audit fee and shall be determined by the Board.
The Board recommend the resolution as an Ordinary Resolution for approval of the Members. None of the Directors or Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company or their relatives are in any way, concerned or interested financially or otherwise, in the 
said resolution.
15
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
Item No. 6: 
Appointment and re-designation of Dr. Sachin D. Patel (DIN: 00033353) as Managing Director of the Company:
The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on 13th June, 2025, based on the recommendation of the Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee, has unanimously approved the proposal of appointment and re-designation of Dr. Sachin D. Patel as 
the Managing Director of the Company, Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited (GTBL) for a period of 5 (five) years with effect from 1st 
July, 2025 subject to the approval of members as per Section 196(4) of the Companies Act, 2013. 
Dr. Sachin D. Patel is also currently serving as the Managing Director & CEO of Themis Medicare Limited (TML). He was the Non-
Executive Director of GTBL till 30th June, 2025. Dr. Sachin D. Patel is also the Member of the Audit, Stakeholders Relationship, Risk 
Management and Corporate Social Responsibility Committees of GTBL.
Dr. Sachin D. Patel holds a Doctorate in Biological Chemistry from Christ's College, University of Cambridge, UK. He is an Industrialist 
and brings with him rich expertise in Business Development and Research activities.
As Dr. Sachin D. Patel will devote time to the affairs of both GTBL & TML and keeping in view his dual responsibilities and 
ongoing leadership across both companies including taking key business decisions and driving sustainable business growth 
of both Companies, Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the Board recommended that Dr. Sachin D. Patel shall draw 
remuneration from both GTBL & TML. However, the total remuneration drawn by Dr. Sachin D. Patel should be in compliance with 
and within the limits specified under Sections 197, 198 and the Schedule V of the Act or any amendments thereto as may be made 
from time to time. 
The essential terms and conditions of appointment of Dr. Sachin D. Patel are as under:
Dr. Sachin D. Patel, Managing Director shall carry out such duties as may be entrusted to him subject to the supervision and 
control of the Board of Directors. He shall also perform such other duties and services as shall from time to time be entrusted to 
him by the Board of Directors. 
Basic Salary of Rs. 10,00,000 (Rupees Ten Lakhs) per month w.e.f. 1st July, 2025 in the range of Rs. 10 Lakhs to Rs. 15 Lakhs and 
eligible for annual increase within the aforesaid scale as may be determined by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and 
the Board of Directors in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act.
Commission: 
In addition to the fixed component, Dr. Sachin D. Patel be entitled to commission on the net profits of the Company, the quantum 
of which shall be determined by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors and the same shall remain 
within the overall limits prescribed under Section 197, 198 and Schedule V of the Act.
Other Benefits like contribution to Provident Fund, Superannuation, Gratuity etc. to the extent either singly or put together are not 
taxable under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
Wherein in any financial year during the tenure of appointment of Dr. Sachin D. Patel the Company has no profits or its profits 
are inadequate, the Company shall pay the remuneration as specified above to Dr. Sachin D. Patel based on the approval of the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company subject to obtaining necessary approvals as 
may be required under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
The total remuneration payable to Dr. Sachin D. Patel by way of salary, commission, contribution to the provident fund, 
superannuation fund, perquisites, benefits and any other allowances shall be as per the limits specified under sections 197, 198 
and Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013. For the purpose of determining such remuneration, the Company shall consider the 
higher profitability between TML & GTBL in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule V, Part II, Section V of the Companies 
Act, 2013  which permits a Managerial person to draw remuneration from more than one Company, provided that the aggregate 
remuneration drawn from both Companies does not exceed the higher of the two maximum permissible remuneration limits 
applicable to either TML or GTBL individually, as per the Act and Schedule V of the Act. 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
16
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
The Members are requested to consider and approve the appointment and re-designation of Dr. Sachin D. Patel as Managing 
Director of the Company for a period of 5 years from 1st July, 2025 to 30th June, 2030.
A brief profile of Dr. Sachin D. Patel is annexed to the AGM Notice.
Dr. Sachin D. Patel is the son of Dr. Dinesh S. Patel, Chairman of TML & GTBL. 
Except Dr. Sachin D. Patel, Dr. Dinesh S. Patel and their relatives, none of the other Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and their respective relatives are concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out in the Notice.
Disclosure under Regulation 36(3) of the Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard-2 on General Meetings in respect of 
Appointment of Dr. Sachin D. Patel as Managing Director of the Company forms part of this notice.
In compliance with the provisions of Sections 196, 197, 203 and other applicable provisions read with Schedule V to the Act, the 
terms of appointment and remuneration of the Managing Director as specified above are now being placed before the Members 
for their approval by way of an Ordinary Resolution. The Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors 
recommend the Resolution no. 6 of this notice for the approval of the Members.
Item No. 7:
Payment of Commission to Dr. Dinesh S. Patel (DIN: 00033273) Non-Executive Chairman:
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel (DIN: 00033273) is the Promoter, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Company. He guides the 
Management on the Company’s long-term goals and also engages with the Board for improving the effectiveness of the Board’s 
functioning. Dr. Dinesh S. Patel (DIN: 00033273) has made and is continuing to make valuable contribution to the growth and 
profitability of the Company for the last four decades.
Further, Dr. Dinesh S. Patel is a technocrat with a wealth of experience in the drugs and pharmaceuticals sector and his immense 
contribution has benefited the Company to a great extent. Based on the recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee (the “Committee”), the Board has decided that the Company shall also pay commission this year to Dr. Dinesh S. 
Patel, Non-Executive Chairman subject to the approval of the shareholders. In the opinion of the Committee, he has the desired 
qualifications, expertise and experience and it was considered desirable that the Company remunerates him in recognition of his 
past and continued contribution towards the Company.
The proposed payment of commission to the Chairman is after consideration of his contribution at the meetings of the Board of 
Directors and its Committees as well as time spent on operational and strategic matters other than at the meetings.
The Board of Directors on recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee approved the payment of commission 
of Rs. 66,00,000 (Rupees Sixty Six Lakhs only) to the Chairman of the Company and further recommends the same for the 
approval of the Members.
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel holds 35,255 shares in the Company. 
Except Dr. Dinesh S. Patel, Dr. Sachin D. Patel and their relatives, none of the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company or their relatives are in any way concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution set out at Item No. 7 
of the Notice.
The Board recommends the above Special Resolution for the approval of the Members.
Item No. 8:
Payment of Commission to Dr. Sachin D. Patel (DIN: 00033353) Non-Executive Director: 
Dr. Sachin D. Patel (DIN: 00033353) is the Promoter, Non-Executive Director of the Company. He guides the Management on 
the Company’s long term goals and also engages with the Board for improving the effectiveness of the Board’s functioning. 
Dr. Sachin D. Patel (DIN: 00033353) has made and is continuing to make valuable contribution to the growth and profitability of 
the Company for the last two decades.
Further, Dr. Sachin D. Patel is a technocrat with a wealth of experience in the drugs and pharmaceuticals sector and his immense 
contribution has benefited the Company to a great extent. Based on the recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee, (the “NRC”) the Board has decided that the Company shall also pay commission this year to Dr. Sachin D. Patel, 
Non-Executive Director subject to the approval of the shareholders. In the opinion of the NRC, he has the desired qualifications, 
expertise and experience and it was considered desirable that the Company remunerates him in recognition of his past and 
continued contribution towards the Company.
17
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
The proposed commission is after consideration of his contribution at the meetings of the Board of Directors and its Committees 
as well as time spent on operational and strategic matters other than at the meetings.
The Board of Directors on recommendation of the Committee approved the commission of Rs. 66,00,000 (Rupees Sixty Six Lakhs 
only) to the Dr. Sachin D. Patel, Non- Executive Director of the Company and hereby recommends the same for the approval of the 
Members.
Dr. Sachin D. Patel holds 53,250 shares in the Company. 
Except Dr. Sachin D. Patel, Dr. Dinesh S. Patel and their relatives, none of the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company or their relatives are in any way concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution set out at Item No. 
8 of the Notice.
The Board recommends the above Special Resolution for the approval of the Members.
Item No. 9:
Appointment of Mr. Nihar Ajay Parikh (DIN: 02475787) as an Independent Director of the Company:
Based on the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company and the recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on 1st August, 2025 had appointed Mr. Nihar Ajay Parikh (DIN: 02475787) 
as an Additional Director, pursuant to Section 161 and applicable provisions of the Companies Act and the rules made thereunder, 
designated as an Independent Director of the Company, subject to the approval of shareholders for a term of 5 (five) consecutive 
years w.e.f. 1st August, 2025 till 31st July, 2030. In accordance with the provisions of Section 149 read with Schedule IV to the 
Companies Act. The appointment of an Independent Director requires approval of the shareholders. 
In terms of Regulation 17(IC) of the Listing Regulations, the listed entity shall ensure that approval of shareholders for appointment 
of a person on the Board of Directors is taken at the next general meeting or within a time period of three (3) months from 
the date of appointment, whichever is earlier. Further, pursuant to Regulation 25(2A) of Listing Regulations, the appointment 
of an Independent Director is subject to the approval of the Members by way of a Special Resolution. Accordingly, the Board 
recommends the passing of the Special Resolution for the approval of the Members.
As required under Listing Regulations a brief profile of Mr. Nihar Ajay Parikh (DIN: 02475787) is as under:
Mr. Nihar Parikh is an entrepreneur turned Venture Capitalist. He served as the Chief Executive Officer of ZCL Chemicals Limited 
(Zandu), where he successfully led the company through a transformative growth phase culminating in its sale. Post this exit, 
Mr. Parikh transitioned into the health-tech venture capital space and is currently the founder of 4Point0 Health Ventures, a fund 
focused on early-stage health-tech startups in India.
His prior experience also includes leadership roles in his family office, global exposure at Janssen Pharmaceutical (a Johnson 
& Johnson company in Belgium) and academic grounding in Bachelor of Engineering (BE), Chemical Engineering from the 
University of Mumbai. Mr. Parikh is known for his strategic acumen, entrepreneurial mindset and ability to scale innovation-
driven businesses. 
Mr. Nihar Parikh has given his consent to act as an Independent Director and has made necessary declarations and disclosures.
Further he is neither disqualified from being appointed as a Director in terms of section 164 (2) of the Act nor debarred from 
holding the office as Director by virtue of any SEBI Order or any other such authority.
He has also provided registration certificates issued by Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs.
Considering the above and in compliance with Section 149, 150 and 152 read with Schedule IV and Companies (Appointment and 
Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014 and other applicable provisions of the Act and of Listing Regulations including Regulation 
17, it is proposed to appoint Mr. Nihar Parikh as an Independent Director on the Board of the Company, not liable to retire by 
rotation for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years effective from 1st August, 2025.
A copy of the draft letter of appointment of Mr. Nihar Parikh, setting out the terms and conditions is available for inspection by the 
Members as set out under “Documents for inspection” in the notes to this AGM notice.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
18
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Except Mr. Nihar Parikh, being an appointee, none of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives are interested in 
the resolution.
The Board of Directors recommends resolution no. 9 of this notice for approval of the Members as a Special Resolution.
Item No. 10:
Payment of Commission to Independent Directors:
As per the provisions of Section 197, 198 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 17(6) of the Listing Regulations, Independent 
Directors of the Company can be paid remuneration including profit related commission with the requisite approval of the 
Members of the Company.
The Board of Directors based on the recommendation of Nomination & Remuneration Committee, have recommended for 
members approval, an enabling resolution for payment of commission aggregating to 1% (One percent) of the net profits, 
calculated in accordance with section 197, 198 and other applicable provisions of the Act commencing from the financial year 
2024-25 for a term of 5 (five) years.
The above commission shall be in addition to fees payable to the Director(s) for attending meetings of the Board/Committees as 
may be decided by the Board and reimbursement of expenses for participation in the Board and other meetings.
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the Board recommends the Special Resolution as set out at Item No. 10 of the 
Notice for approval by the members.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or their respective relatives, are concerned or interested in the Resolution 
mentioned at item No. 10 of the Notice, except the Independent Directors. 
 	
Registered Office
69/C, GIDC Industrial Estate,
Vapi-396 195 Dist. Valsad,
Gujarat
CIN: L24230GJ1981PLC004878
Place: Mumbai
Date: 1st August, 2025
By Order of the Board of Directors
Sd/-
Vineet Gawankar
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A55504
19
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
ANNEXURE TO ITEM NO. 2, 6 & 9 OF THE NOTICE
Details of Director seeking appointment/ re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
[Pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard 2 on General Meetings]
Name of the Director
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel 
(DIN: 00033273)
Dr. Sachin D. Patel 
(DIN: 00033353)
Mr. Nihar Ajay Parikh 
(DIN: 02475787)
Date of Birth
02/11/1948
18/01/1975
13/11/1985
Nationality
Indian
Indian
Indian
Brief Resume of the Director
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel is a 
Chairman of the Board of 
Directors of the Company and 
Member of the Company’s 
CSR 
and 
Stakeholders 
Relationship Committees. 
He 
holds 
Doctorate 
in 
Medicinal Chemistry. He is a 
Fellow of the Royal Society 
of Chemistry, London, U.K. 
He is an Industrialist and 
having more than 40 years’ 
experience. 
His 
areas 
of 
expertise are Pharmaceutical 
research, 
Biotechnology, 
Fermentation 
technology, 
Banking 
and 
Business 
management.
Dr. Sachin D. Patel holds 
a Doctorate in Biological 
Chemistry 
from 
Christ's 
College, 
University 
of 
Cambridge, UK. He is an 
Industrialist and brings with 
him rich expertise in Business 
Development. 
Dr. Sachin D. Patel has been 
appointed 
as 
Managing 
Director of the Company 
w.e.f. 1st July, 2025.
He 
is 
currently 
Member 
of 
Audit, 
Stakeholders 
Relationship, 
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
and 
Risk 
Management 
Committees
Mr. Nihar Parikh holds a 
Bachelor of Engineering (BE), 
Chemical 
Engineering 
from 
University of Mumbai.
Mr. 
Nihar 
Parikh 
is 
an 
entrepreneur turned Venture 
Capitalist. He served as the 
Chief Executive Officer of ZCL 
Chemicals Limited (Zandu), 
where he successfully led 
the 
company 
through 
a 
transformative growth phase 
culminating 
in 
its 
sale. 
Post this exit, Mr. Parikh 
transitioned into the health-
tech venture capital space 
and is currently the founder 
of 4Point0 Health Ventures, a 
fund focused on early-stage 
health-tech startups in India.
His 
prior 
experience 
also 
includes leadership roles in his 
family office, global exposure 
at Janssen Pharmaceutical
(a 
Johnson 
& 
Johnson 
company in Belgium). 
Date of Appointment on the 
Board
25/05/1992 
01/07/2025
01/08/2025
Qualifications
Doctorate 
in 
Medicinal 
Chemistry
Doctorate 
in 
Biological 
Chemistry 
from 
Christ's 
College, 
University 
of 
Cambridge, UK. 
Bachelor of Engineering (BE), 
Chemical Engineering
Expertise in specific functional 
Area
Business Development.
Business Development
Business Development
Mr. 
Parikh 
is 
known 
for 
his 
strategic 
acumen, 
entrepreneurial mindset and 
ability to scale innovation-
driven businesses.
Number of shares held in the 
Company
35,255 Shares
53,250 Shares
NIL 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
20
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Name of the Director
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel 
(DIN: 00033273)
Dr. Sachin D. Patel 
(DIN: 00033353)
Mr. Nihar Ajay Parikh 
(DIN: 02475787)
List of the Directorships held 
in other listed companies*
Themis Medicare Limited
Themis Medicare Limited
NIL 
Number of Board Meetings 
attended during the year
7 Board meetings
7 Board meetings
Not Applicable
Chairman/Member in the 
Committees of the Boards 
of Companies in which he is 
Director*
Chairman of Gujarat Themis 
Biosyn 
Limited 
and 
its 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee
Member 
of 
Audit 
& 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committees 
of 
Gujarat 
Themis Biosyn Limited
Member 
of 
Audit 
& 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committees 
of 
Themis 
Medicare Limited
NIL 
Relationships between 
Directors inter-se
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel, is the 
father of Dr. Sachin D. Patel.
Dr. Sachin D. Patel, is the 
son of Dr. Dinesh S. Patel, 
Chairman of the Company & 
TML.
There 
is 
no 
Inter-se 
relationship with the Directors.
Terms and conditions 
of appointment or re-
appointment
Appointment 
as 
Non-
Executive Director, liable to 
retire by rotation.
Appointment as Managing 
Director, not liable to retire by 
rotation.
Appointment as Non-Executive 
Independent Director, not liable 
to retire by rotation.
Details of remuneration 
last drawn and Details of 
remuneration sought to be 
paid.
Commission of Rs. 60,00,000 
was paid for financial year 
2023-24.
Commission of Rs. 60,00,000 
was paid for financial year 
2023-24.
Sitting fees is payable, also 
entitled 
for 
profit 
related 
commission 
as 
may 
be 
decided by the Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee & 
the Board.
 *Committees includes Audit Committee & Stakeholders Relationship Committees
21
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
ROUTE MAP TO THE AGM VENUE
Venue: Themis Medicare Limited, at 69/A, GIDC Industrial Estate, Vapi-396 195, Dist. Valsad, Gujarat
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
22
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Members,
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting herewith the 44th Annual Report together with the Audited Accounts of the Company 
for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2025.
1.	
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS & RESULTS:
a.	
FINANCIAL RESULTS: 
	
Financial Performance of the Company for the year ended 31st March, 2025 as compared to the previous financial year 
is summarized below:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Income
15,323.23
17,418.76
Less: Expenses
8,769.44
9,485.33
Profit/ (Loss) before Tax 
6,553.79
7,933.43
Current Tax
1,669.92
1,950.90
Deferred Tax
28.05
37.51
Adjustment of Tax relating to earlier periods
(21.05)
28.70
Profit after Tax
4,877.17
5,916.32
b.	
OPERATIONS OF THE COMPANY:
	
Your Company is engaged in the manufacturing of fermentation-based pharmaceutical intermediates and APIs. During 
the year under review, your Company has shown degrowth in both income and profitability as compared to the previous 
financial year. During the period, sale of finished products recorded at Rs.15,323.23 Lakhs (previous year Rs.17,418.76 
Lakhs) registering drop in sale. The Net Profit after Tax recorded by the Company for the year under review is Rs.4,877.17 
Lakhs as compared to net profit of Rs.5,916.32 Lakhs during previous year registering a decrease of 17.56%.
	
The Board of Directors of the Company, at its meeting held on 18th November, 2024, had approved the Scheme of 
Amalgamation ("Scheme") between the Company and Themis Medicare Limited (TML) and their respective shareholders 
under sections 230 to 232 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 subject to receipt of necessary 
regulatory and other approvals.
	
However, the Board at its meeting held on 13th June 2025 after evaluating new developments in the market, has 
decided to focus on its core business of fermentation-based pharmaceutical intermediates and Active Pharmaceutical 
Ingredients (API) and decided to revisit all its strategic options. Consequently, the Board reconsidered its earlier 
decision of merger with TML and resolved not to proceed with the proposed merger.
	
With this, the Company will focus on its core business of fermentation-based pharmaceutical intermediates.
c.	
SUBSIDIARY, ASSOCIATE & JOINT VENTURE COMPANIES:
	
As on 31st March, 2025, the Company does not have any subsidiary, associate & joint venture company. 
d.	
DIVIDEND:
	
Your Directors are pleased to recommend dividend of Re.0.67 per equity share having face value of Re. 1 each on 
10,89,65,265 Equity shares, aggregating to Rs.7,30,06,728 for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025. The dividend 
would be subject to the approval of the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 12th 
September, 2025. The said dividend recommendation is in accordance with the Dividend Distribution Policy of the 
Company which is available on the website of the Company at https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/
Dividend-Distribution-Policy_GTBL_-Final.pdf
e.	
TRANSFER TO RESERVES:
	
Your Company has not transferred any amount to reserves during the year under review.
23
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
f.	
REVISION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
	
There was no revision of the financial statements for the year under review.
g.	
FIXED DEPOSITS:
	
During the year, your Company has not accepted any deposits within the meaning of Section 73 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (the “Act”) and the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014.
2.	
DISCLOSURES UNDER SECTION 134(3)(l) OF THE ACT:
	
Except as disclosed elsewhere in this report, no material changes and commitments which could affect the Company’s 
financial position have occurred between the end of the financial year of the Company and date of this report.
	
The Company has commenced its commercial production at its newly set up API Plant situated at 69/C, GIDC Industrial 
Estate, Vapi – 396 195, Dist. Valsad, Gujarat, India with effect from 6th May, 2025. The state-of-the-art, multi-purpose synthetic 
and fermentation-based API plant has been established for the production of various Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients 
(APIs) and Intermediates for use in the pharmaceutical industry. 
	
The facility will support Company’s forward integration initiatives and strengthen its position in export markets, particularly 
in the United States and Europe. 
3.	
OTHER CONFIRMATIONS:
a.	
The Company has not issued any shares with differential voting rights/ sweat equity shares.
b.	
There has been no change in the nature of business of the Company as on the date of this report. 
c.	
No application was made or any proceedings were pending under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
d.	
Valuation related details for financial year 2024-25 in respect of one time settlement of loan from banks or financial 
institutions are not applicable.
4.	
DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE:
	
The Independent Directors of the Company have given the declaration and confirmation to the Company as required under 
Section 149(7) of the Act and Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations confirming that they meet the criteria of 
independence and that they are not aware of any circumstance or situation, which exists or may be reasonably anticipated, 
that could impair or impact their ability to discharge their duties with an objective independent judgement and without any 
external influence.
	
Further, in terms of Section 150 read with Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended, the Independent Directors of the Company have included their names in the data bank of Independent Directors 
maintained with the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs.
5.	
NOMINATION & REMUNERATION POLICY:
	
Your Company has constituted Nomination & Remuneration Committee as prescribed under section 178(1) of the Act. The 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee considers that the qualifications, experience and positive attributes of the Directors 
on the Board of the Company are sufficient enough to discharge their duties. 
	
During the financial year 2024-25, the Company has paid sitting fees to the Independent Directors for attending Board 
meetings, Audit Committee Meetings and also for Separate Independent Directors’ Meetings.
	
The Company’s Policy on Nomination and Appointment of Directors, criteria for appointment of Senior Management 
and Remuneration Policy, as formulated under Section 178(3) of the Act, is available on the Company's website at 
https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/NRC-Policy-2022-23.pdf 
6.	
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR INVESTMENTS:
	
Details of Loans, Guarantees and Investments, covered under the provisions of Section 186 of the Act are given in Note no. 
5 of the Financial Statements.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
24
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
7.	
PARTICULARS OF CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENT WITH RELATED PARTIES:
	
Contracts/arrangements/transactions entered by the Company during the financial year with related parties were on an 
arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of business. Hence no disclosure is required to be provided in Form AOC-2 
for the Financial Year 2024-25. Further the details of the transactions with related parties are provided in Note No. 31 in the 
accompanying financial statements. 
	
All related party transactions are placed for the review/ approval before the Audit Committee and also before the Board and 
Shareholders wherever necessary in compliance with the provisions of the Act and Listing Regulations. The Audit Committee 
at its meeting held on 25th March, 2025 reviewed and approved the related party transactions after considering the minimum 
information to be provided as per industry standards for the financial year 2025-26 and granted prior omnibus approval 
for Related Party Transactions as per the provisions contained in the SEBI Listing Regulations. A statement giving details 
of all Related Party transactions was also placed before the Audit Committee and Board of Directors for their approval on 
quarterly basis.
	
The policy on materiality of related party transactions and dealing with related party transactions as approved by the Board 
has been adopted by the Company and uploaded on the Company’s website at 
	
https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/RPT-Policy_GTBL_14.02.2025.pdf
8.	
DISCLOSURE OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS:
	
The Internal Financial Controls followed by the Company are adequate and commensurate with the size and nature of the 
business and were operating effectively during the year under review.
	
Internal Audit function of the Company is carried out through Independent Chartered Accountants firm to test and verify the 
Company’s Internal Control System. The Company’s assets are adequately safeguarded against significant misuse or loss. 
The Company has in place, adequate Internal Financial Controls with respect to maintenance of accounting records and 
financial transactions. Proper systems have been devised to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and 
that such systems were adequate and operating effectively. The Audit Committee and the Board reviews the report(s) of the 
independent internal auditor at regular intervals along with the adequacy, effectiveness and operations of the internal auditor 
regarding internal control systems and recommends improvements and remedial measures wherever necessary.
	
During the year under review, no material or serious observations were received from the Internal Auditors of the Company 
for inefficiency or inadequacy of such controls.
9.	
DISCLOSURE OF SIGNIFICANT & MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY REGULATORS OR COURTS OR TRIBUNALS:
	
During the financial year 2024-25, no significant or material orders have been passed by any Regulators or Courts or 
Tribunals which can have impact on the going concern status and its operations in future.
10.	 DISCLOSURES RELATED TO SHARE CAPITAL AND EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS:
a.	
The Company has not issued any equity shares under the Employees Stock Option Scheme during the year and 
therefore, no information is provided on this matter.
b.	
During the year under review, there were no instances of non-exercising of voting rights in respect of shares purchased 
directly by employees under a scheme and thus no information is furnished in this regard.
c.	
Bonus Issue of Equity Shares of the Company:
	
On 14th May, 2024, the Board of Directors of the Company considered and approved the proposal for the issuance of 
bonus equity shares in the ratio of 1:2 (i.e., one bonus equity share for every two existing equity shares held), with the 
face value of the shares remaining at Re.1 each. The said proposal was approved by the Shareholders of the Company 
at the Annual General Meeting held on 23rd July, 2024. The Record Date for the bonus issue was set as 9th August, 2024 
and consequently, the allotment of the bonus equity shares was completed on 14th August, 2024.
	
Pursuant to the allotment of bonus shares, the paid-up equity share capital of the Company increased from 
Rs.7,26,43,510 to Rs.10,89,65,265.
11.	 BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (BRSR):
	
In accordance with Regulation 34(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the inclusion of Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report (BRSR) as a part of the Annual Report is mandated for top 1000 listed entities based on the market 
capitalization. BRSR for the financial year 2024-25 has been prepared in accordance with the format prescribed by SEBI. 
The BRSR report forms part of this report. 
	
The BRSR report for the financial year 2024-25 has also been hosted on the Company’s website and the same can be 
accessed at https://www.gtbl.in/investors/reports
25
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
12.	 DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNELS:
a.	
In accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Articles of Association of the Company, Dr. Dinesh S. Patel 
(DIN: 00033273), Non-Executive Director of the Company, retires by rotation at the ensuing Annual General Meeting 
and being eligible offers himself for re-appointment. The Board recommends to the members the re-appointment of Dr. 
Dinesh S. Patel (DIN: 00033273) as a Director in the ensuing Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company.
	
Necessary resolution for the appointment/ re-appointment of the Directors is included in the Notice convening the 
ensuing AGM and details of the proposal for appointment/re-appointment are mentioned in the Explanatory Statement 
to the Notice of AGM.
b.	
Pursuant to Section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Board of Directors of the Company had appointed Mr. Hitesh 
D. Gajaria (DIN: 10044310) and Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan (DIN: 00019325) as Additional Directors in the category of 
Non-Executive Independent Directors, with effect from 14th May, 2024 and 26th July, 2024, respectively. Subsequently, 
the shareholders approved the appointment of Mr. Hitesh D. Gajaria (DIN: 10044310) as a Director at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) held on 23rd July, 2024. The appointment of Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan as a Non-Executive 
Independent Directors was approved by the shareholders through a postal ballot, with the resolution passed on 
13th October, 2024.
c.	
Mr. Vijay Agarwal (DIN: 00058548) had completed his second term as an Non-Executive Independent Directors at the last 
Annual General Meeting held on 23rd July, 2024 and accordingly ceased to be a Director of the Company with effect from that 
date. Further, Dr. Vikram Sanghvi (DIN: 06858267) ceased to be a Director of the Company with effect from closing hours of 
5th November, 2024, pursuant to his resignation on attaining the age of 75 years. The Board of Directors place on record 
their appreciation for the valuable services rendered by Mr. Vijay Agarwal and Dr. Vikram Sanghvi during their tenure as 
Independent Directors of the Company. 
d.	
Mr. Bhavik Shah was appointed as the Interim Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the Company with effect from 1st January, 
2025, following the superannuation of Mr. Bharat Desai, who ceased to be CFO with effect from 31st December 2024. 
Subsequently, the Board of Directors, at their meeting held on 14th February 2025, re-designated Mr. Bhavik Shah as 
the Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
e.	
Further, the Board, on recommendation of Nomination & Remuneration Committee (NRC) appointed Mr. Vineet Gawankar 
(ACS-55504) as the Company Secretary & Compliance Officer of the Company with effect from 3rd September, 2024 
in place of Mr. Rahul Soni (ACS- 61305), who resigned as Company Secretary & Compliance Officer of the Company 
with effect from 2nd August, 2024. The Board of Directors placed on record its appreciation to Mr. Rahul Soni for his 
contribution during his term as Company Secretary of the Company.
	
All the Directors of the Company have confirmed that they are not disqualified to act as Director in terms of section 164 
of the Act.
13.	 DISCLOSURE RELATED TO BOARD, COMMITTEES AND POLICIES:
a.	
BOARD MEETINGS:
	
A calendar of regular meetings is prepared and circulated in advance to the Directors. Pursuant to the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder, the Board met (7) Seven times during the year, the details of which 
are given in the Corporate Governance Report which forms part of this Annual Report. The intervening gap between the 
meetings was within the period prescribed under the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
b.	
DIRECTOR’S RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT:
	
In terms of Section 134(5) of the Act, in relation to the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended 
31st March, 2025, the Board of Directors hereby confirms that:
i)	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable accounting standards had been followed and there are no 
material departures according to the accounting standards;
ii)	
such accounting policies have been selected and applied consistently and the Directors made judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company 
as at 31st March, 2025 and of the profit of the Company for the year;
iii)	
proper and sufficient care was taken for the maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of this Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
iv)	
the annual accounts of the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis; 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
26
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
v)	
internal financial controls have been laid down to be followed by the Company and that such internal financial 
controls are adequate and were operating effectively;
vi)	
proper systems have been devised to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such 
systems were adequate and operating effectively.
c.	
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
	
In compliance with the requirement of applicable laws and as part of best governance practices, the Company has 
following Committees of the Board as on 31st March, 2025:
i.	
Audit Committee; 
ii.	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee;
iii.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee;
iv.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee;
v.	
Risk Management Committee.
vi.	
Allotment Committee
	
In addition to the above, a committee of Independent Directors was constituted for the purpose of evaluating and 
approving the scheme of amalgamation between the Company and Themis Medicare Limited, in accordance with 
the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. The details with respect to the aforesaid Committees forms part of the Corporate Governance 
Report. Further the Board of Directors of the Company have constituted the allotment committee for the purpose of 
allotment of bonus equity shares to existing shareholders as on record date i.e. 9th August, 2024.
d.	
VIGIL MECHANISM POLICY/ WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY FOR THE DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES:
	
Your Company has established a Vigil Mechanism Policy for Directors, employees and third parties to report their genuine 
concerns. Details of which have been given in the Corporate Governance report annexed to this report. This policy 
is also available on Company’s website and can be accessed at https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/
GTBL-Vigil-Mechanism-or-Whistle-Blower-Policy.pdf
e.	
FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMS FOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS:
	
The Company conducts familiarization programs for Independent Directors and the details are uploaded on the website 
of the Company on the below mentioned link https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Familarization-
Programme-2024-25.pdf
f.	
RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY:
	
Your Company has in place a mechanism to inform the Board about the risk assessment and minimization procedure 
and undertakes periodical review of the same to ensure that the risks are identified and controlled by means of a 
properly defined framework. As per Regulation 21 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, Risk Management Committee of the 
Company has been constituted by the Board on 11th February, 2022.
	
The composition of the Risk Management Committee of the Company is as under:
i.   Dr. Sachin D. Patel
Director & Member of the Committee
ii.  Mr. Siddharth Kusumgar
Director & Member of the Committee
iii. Mr. Rajneesh Anand	
Consultant & Member of the Committee
g.	
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY: 
	
As per the provisions of Section 135 of the Act read with Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 
2014, the Board of Directors has constituted a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee.
	
Annual Report on CSR activities as required under the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 
has been appended as Annexure - II and forms an integral part of this Report.
	
The Company has formulated policy for CSR activities and is placed on the website of the Company at https://www.
gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/CSR-Policy_revised.pdf 
27
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
h.	
ANNUAL PERFORMANCE EVALUATION:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations and in accordance 
with the parameters suggested by the Nomination & Remuneration policy, the Board of Directors have carried out an 
annual evaluation of its own performance, Board, Committees and Individual Directors pursuant to the provisions of the 
Act and the Corporate Governance requirements as prescribed by the SEBI Listing Regulations. Feedback was sought 
by way of a structured questionnaire covering various aspects of the Board’s functioning, such as adequacy of the 
composition of the Board and its committees, Board culture, execution and performance of specific duties, obligations 
and Governance.
	
In a separate meeting of Independent Directors was held on 25th March, 2025, performance of Non-Independent 
Directors, performance of the Board as a whole and performance of the Chairman was evaluated, taking into account 
the views of other Non-Executive Directors. Performance evaluation of Independent Directors was done by the entire 
Board.
	
A brief summary of outcome of the Board evaluation along with the action plan for implementing the recommendations 
made by the Directors was presented to the Board.
i.	
DISCLOSURE UNDER SECTION 197(12) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 AND OTHER DISCLOSURES AS PER RULE 5 OF 
COMPANIES (APPOINTMENT & REMUNERATION) RULES, 2014:
	
The information required under Section 197 of the Act read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is furnished in Annexure III.
	
The statement containing names of employees in terms of remuneration drawn and the particulars of employees as 
required under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is provided in a separate annexure forming part of this report. Further, the report 
and the accounts are being sent to the Members excluding the aforesaid annexure. In terms of Section 136 of the Act, 
and the said annexure is open for inspection. Any member interested in obtaining a copy of the said statement may 
write to the Company Secretary at cfoassist@themismedicare.com
14.	 AUDITORS:
a.	
APPOINTMENT OF STATUTORY AUDITORS:
	
M/s. GMJ & Co., Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.103429W), the Statutory Auditors of the Company, were 
appointed by the members at the 41st Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on 7th September, 2022 till conclusion of the 
46th AGM to be held in the financial year 2027.
b.	
MAINTENANCE OF COST RECORDS:
	
Maintenance of cost records is required as specified by the Central Government under sub-section (1) of section 148 of 
the Act and accordingly such accounts and records are made and maintained.
c.	
COST AUDITORS:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 148 of the Act read with the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, 
the Board of Directors on recommendation of the Audit Committee, appointed M/s. Raja Dutta & Co., Cost Accountants 
(Firm Registration No. 101555) as the Cost Auditors of the Company for the financial year 2025-26 for conducting the 
audit of the cost accounting records maintained by the Company in respect of API and Intermediates activities of the 
Company.
	
Pursuant to Section 148 of the Act read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, appropriate resolution 
seeking members ratification to the payment of remuneration of the said Cost Auditors is appearing in the Notice 
convening the 44th AGM of the Company.
d.	
SECRETARIAL AUDITORS:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Company had appointed M/s. KRS AND Co., Practicing Company Secretaries, 
Thane, (FRN.S2017MH46900 & Peer Review No. 3967/2023), to undertake the Secretarial Audit of the Company for the 
financial year 2024–25.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
28
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
	
Secretarial Audit Report issued by M/s. KRS AND Co., Practicing Company Secretaries, in Form MR-3 for the financial 
year 2024-25 forms part of this Annual report as Annexure-I. 
	
In accordance with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 
dated December 12, 2024, the Secretarial Auditors shall now be appointed by the Members of the Company, on the 
recommendation of the Board of Directors, for a period of five (5) consecutive years.
	
Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board, at its Meeting held on 20th May, 2025, subject to the 
approval of the members of the Company, approved appointment of M/s. KRS AND Co., Practicing Company Secretaries, 
Thane, (FRN.S2017MH46900 & Peer Review No. 3967/2023) represented by CS Ketan Ravindra Shirwadkar (Membership 
No. A37829 and COP No. 15386), as the Secretarial Auditor of the Company, for a term of five (5) consecutive financial 
years, to hold office from financial year 2025-26.
e.	
QUALIFICATION/ RESERVATION IN THE STATUTORY AUDIT REPORT:
	
There are no qualifications, reservations or adverse remarks or disclaimer made by the Statutory Auditors in respect of 
financial statements as on and for the year ended 31st March, 2025.
f.	
QUALIFICATION/ RESERVATION IN THE SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT:
	
Provisions of Section 204 read with Section 134(3) of the Act mandates the Company to obtain Secretarial Audit Report 
from Practicing Company Secretary. M/s. KRS AND Co., Practicing Company Secretaries were appointed to conduct 
Secretarial Audit and issue Report for the financial year 2024-25.
	
Secretarial Audit Report issued by the Secretarial Auditor in Form MR-3 for the financial year 2024-25 forms part of this 
report. The report of the Secretarial Auditor is annexed to this report as Annexure I. 
	
The Audit Report issued by the Secretarial Auditor for the financial year 2024–25 does not contain any qualifications. 
However, the Report includes the observation that the Company failed to comply with Regulation 295(1) of the SEBI 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 in implementing the bonus issue within the prescribed 
timeline from the date of Board approval. The delay was inadvertent and occurred due to procedural and operational 
oversight. The Company has since taken necessary steps to ensure timely compliance going forward. The fine levied by 
the Stock Exchange has been duly paid and the matter stands closed.
g.	
COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL STANDARDS:
	
Your Company has duly complied with the applicable Secretarial Standards (SS), issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretary of India relating to meetings of the Board and its committees (SS1) and General Meetings (SS2) respectively 
during the year under review. 
15	
OTHER DISCLOSURES:
	
Other disclosures as per provisions of Section 134 of the Act read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 are furnished 
as under:
a.	
ANNUAL RETURN:
	
Pursuant to Section 92(3) read with Section 134(3) (a) of the Act, the Annual Return as on 31st March 2025 is 
available on the Company’s website on https://www.gtbl.in/investors/reports/
b.	
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO: 
	
The particulars as required under the provisions of Section 134(3) (m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 
8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in respect of conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign 
exchange earnings and outgo etc. are furnished in Annexure IV which forms part of this Report.
c.	
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT:
	
In terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Management Discussion and Analysis report forms part of this report.
d.	
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE:
	
A separate report on Corporate Governance along with a Certificate of Practicing Company Secretary regarding 
compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Regulation 17 to 27 read with Schedule V 
and Regulation 46 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 as amended forms part of this Annual report.
29
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
e.	
REPORTING OF FRAUD BY AUDITORS:
	
During the year under review, the Statutory Auditors, Cost Auditors and Secretarial Auditors have not reported any 
instances of frauds committed in your Company by its Officers or Employees to the Audit Committee under section 
143(12) of the Act.
f.	
 LISTING OF EQUITY SHARES ON THE NATIONAL STOCK EXCHANGE OF INDIA LIMITED:
	
The equity shares of the Company were listed on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) with effect 
from 25th February 2025, in order to improve liquidity and provide wider access to investors.
g.	
PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
	
Your Company gives prime importance to the dignity and respect of its employees irrespective of their gender or 
hierarchy and expects responsible conduct and behaviour on the part of employees at all levels.
	
Your Company has zero tolerance for sexual harassment at the workplace and has adopted a policy on prevention, 
prohibition and redressal of sexual harassment at the workplace in line with the provisions of the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Rules framed 
thereunder for prevention and redressal of Complaints of Sexual Harassment at the workplace. The Company has 
constituted an Internal Committee (IC) and name of the members of the IC are displayed on the notice board of 
each office and manufacturing unit. 
	
There was no complaint of sexual harassment received during the financial year 2024-25.
h.	
DETAILS OF SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS (I.E. CHANGE OF 25% OR MORE AS COMPARED 
TO THE IMMEDIATELY PREVIOUS FINANCIAL YEAR):
Sr. No.
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
1
Debtors Turnover (in days)
70.51
48.29
2
Inventory Turnover (in days)
10.13
19.29
3
Interest Coverage Ratio
181.07
362.56
4
Current Ratio
2.53:1
2.94:1
5
Debt Equity Ratio
-
-
6
Operating Profit Margin (%)
43.70%
46.85%
7
Net Profit Margin (%)
32.34%
34.84%
i.	
Details of any change in Return on Net Worth as compared to the immediately previous financial year along with 
a detailed explanation thereof.:
Financial year
2024-25
2023-24
Return on net worth (%)
19.64%
29.38%
j.	
EMPLOYEES RELATIONS:
	
Your Board of Directors place on record their sincere appreciation of the contributions made by the employees at 
all levels to the growth of the Company. 
	
Industrial relations at all our manufacturing sites remained cordial.
16.	 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS AND APPRECIATION
Your Board of Directors take this opportunity to thank all stakeholders including customers, shareholders, suppliers, bankers, 
business partners/associates, collaborators, financial institutions and Central and State Governments for their consistent 
support and encouragement to the Company. Your Directors also thank the Members and Investors for their confidence in 
the Company.
 	
Place: Mumbai
Date: 20th May, 2025 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Sd/-
Dr. Dinesh S Patel
Chairman 
DIN:00033273
Sd/-
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
Director 
DIN: 00033353
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
30
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
ANNEXURE I
FORM NO. MR-3 
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
for Financial Year ended on 31st March 2025
To,
The Members,
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited.
I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate 
practices by Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited (hereinafter called "The Company "). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that 
provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conduct/statutory compliances and expressing my opinion thereon. 
Based on my verification of the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company 
and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
Secretarial Audit, I hereby report that in my opinion, the Company has, during the audit period ended on 31st March, 2025, complied 
with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism 
in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, Forms and returns filed and other records maintained by Gujarat Themis Biosyn 
Limited (“The Company”), for the year ended on 31st March 2025 to the extent applicable to the provisions of:
I.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made thereunder to the extent applicable.
II.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 ("SCRA") and the Rules made thereunder.
III.	
The Depositories Act, 2018 and the Regulations and Byelaws framed thereunder.
IV.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings.
V.	
 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 ("SEBI 
Act") to the extent applicable to the Company: -
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018. 
d.	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021.
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 
regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client.
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 (Not applicable to the 
Company during the audit period).
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 (Not applicable to the Company 
during the audit period).
h.	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021; (Not 
Applicable to Company during the audit period).
i.	
The Company has complied with the requirements under the Equity Listing Agreements entered into with BSE Limited 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
VI.	 I further report that, having regard to the compliance system prevailing in the Company and on the examination of the 
relevant documents and records in pursuance thereof, on test-check basis, the Company has generally complied with the 
following law applicable specifically to the Company:
a.	
Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Rules made thereunder.
b.	
The Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.
31
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
c.	
Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and Rules issued by the State Pollution Control Boards.
d.	
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and Rules issued by the State Pollution Control Boards.
e.	
The Indian Boilers Act, 1923 & the Indian Boilers Regulations, 1950.
I have also examined compliances with the applicable clauses of the following:
a.	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
During the audit period, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines and Standards 
as mentioned above except in the following instance:
i.	
In terms of Regulation 295(1) of SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2018, there was a delay 
of 41 days in implementation of Bonus Issue of Equity Shares from the date of meeting of its Board of Directors held on 
14th May 2024 approving the Bonus Issue. The Company paid a fine of Rs.9,72,000/- (Rupees Nine Lakhs Seventy-Two 
Thousand Only) including 18% GST in this regard to BSE Limited. 
I further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is constituted with a proper balance of Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors. 
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel that took place during the year under 
review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act, as under:
1.	
Mr. Hitesh Gajaria (DIN: 10044310) was appointed as an Additional Non-Executive Independent Director with effect from 
14th May 2024. Further, the Members of the Company at the 43rd Annual General Meeting held on Tuesday 23rd July 2024 
approved the regularization of the appointment of Mr. Hitesh Gajaria (DIN: 10044310) as Non-Executive Independent Director, 
consequent to which the designation was changed from Additional Director to Director of the Company. 
2.	
Mr. Vijay Agarwal (DIN: 00058548) retired from the office of the Non-Executive Independent Director with effect from July 23, 
2024, on completion of his term. 
3.	
Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan (DIN: 00019325) was appointed as an Additional Non-Executive Independent Director with effect 
from July 26th, 2024. Further the Members of the Company through Postal Ballot have approved the regularization of the 
appointment of Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan (DIN: 00019325) as Non-Executive Independent Director, consequent to which the 
Designation was changed from Additional Director to Director of the Company w.e.f. 13th October 2024.
4.	
Mr. Vikram Sanghvi (DIN: 0685826) has resigned from the office of Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company 
w.e.f. 6th November 2024.
5.	
Mr. Rahul D. Soni (ACS No.61305) resigned from the office of Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Company 
with effect from August 02nd 2024. Further, Mr. Vineet G. Gawankar (ACS No.55504) was appointed as the Company Secretary 
and Compliance Officer of the Company with effect from September 03rd, 2024.
6.	
Mr. Bharat Desai retired from the office of Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the Company effective from 31st December 2024. 
Further, Mr. Bhavik Shah was appointed Interim CFO and KMP of the Company w.e.f. 1st January 2025. Further, in the Meeting 
of Board of Directors of the Company held on Friday, 14th February 2025 the Board approved the change in designation of Mr. 
Bhavik Shah from Interim CFO to CFO of the Company.
Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least 
seven days in advance and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
I further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the 
Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
I further report that during the audit period:
1.	
At the 43rd Annual General Meeting held on Tuesday, 23rd July 2024, the Members of the Company approved the following.
a.	
Declared a Final Dividend of Rs.0.25 per Equity Shares for the Financial Year 2023-24.
b.	
Approved the Ratification of Remuneration of Rs.50,000 per annum plus applicable taxes and reimbursement of out of 
pocket expenses (at actuals) payable to M/s. Raja Dutta & Co., Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No. 101555) for 
conducting the audit of the cost accounting records maintained by the Company in respect of Company’s manufacturing 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
32
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
activities for the financial year ending 31st March, 2025 in terms of Section 148 of the Companies Act 2013 read with 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
c.	
Approved the Payment of Commission of Rs.60,00,000/- (Rupees Sixty Lakhs Only) to Dr. Dinesh S. Patel, Non-
Executive Chairman and Dr. Sachin D. Patel Non-Executive Director as per the provisions of Sections 197, 198 and 
other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as 
amended, the Articles of Association of the Company, the Company’s Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and other employees and based on performance evaluation and on recommendation of Nomination and 
Remuneration. 
d.	
Approved the Issue of 3,63,21,755 Bonus Equity Shares pursuant to the provisions of Section 63 and all other applicable 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014 and 
SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and SEBI (Listing obligations and Disclosures 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 in the proportion of 1:2 i.e. 1 (One) new fully paid-up equity share of Re 1/- (Rupees 
One) each for every 2 (Two) existing fully paid-up equity share of Re 1/- (Rupee One) to beneficial owners as per the 
record date. 
2.	
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 26th July 2024 fixed Friday 9th August 2024 as the record date for the purpose 
of determining the eligibility of shareholders for issuance of Bonus Equity Shares. Further, the Allotment Committee vide its 
meeting dated 14th August 2024 allotted 3,63, 21,755 Equity Shares of Rs.1/- each as fully paid Bonus Equity Shares. The 
Company received listing approval on 16th August 2024 and trading approval w.e.f 27th August 2024 for the said shares. 
3.	
The equity shares of the Company have been listed and admitted to dealings on National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(“NSE”) with effect from Tuesday, 25th February 2025, under the Symbol “GUJTHEM”. 
4.	
The Board of Directors of the Company at their meeting held on 18th November 2024 have approved the draft Scheme of 
Amalgamation of Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited (“Amalgamating Company”) with Themis Medicare Limited (“Amalgamated 
Company”) and their respective shareholders and creditors under Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other 
applicable laws (“Scheme”).
	
The Scheme is subject to the receipt of requisite approvals from the National Company Law Tribunal, Stock Exchanges, 
Securities Exchange Board of India, requisite statutory and regulatory authorities and the respective shareholders and 
creditors under applicable laws.
5.	
During the period under review CSR expenditure of Rs.1,40,84,474/- (Rupees One Crore Forty Lakhs Eighty-Four Thousand 
Four Hundred and Forty-Seven Only) remained unspent and on date of signing this report the same is transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account on 29.04.2025 towards ongoing project. 
For KRS AND CO.
Company Secretaries
Date: 20th May, 2025
Place: Thane 	
	
 	
 
ICSI UDIN: A037829G000393129
Peer Review No. 3967/2023
Ketan Ravindra Shirwadkar
Proprietor
ACS No.: 37829
COP No.: 15386
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure-1 and forms an integral part of this report.
33
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
Annexure to the secretarial audit report
To, 
The Members, 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. My responsibility is to express 
an opinion on these Secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and processes that were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in Secretarial records. I believe that the processes and practices we follow provided a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
I have not verified the correctness, appropriateness of financial records and books of accounts of the Company. 
4.	
Compliance with the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
the management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on a test basis. 
5.	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the Company or of the 
efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
For KRS AND CO.
Company Secretaries
Date: 20th May, 2025
Place: Thane 	
	
 	
 
ICSI UDIN: A037829G000393129
Peer Review No. 3967/2023
Ketan Ravindra Shirwadkar
Proprietor
ACS No.: 37829
COP No.: 15386
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
34
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
ANNEXURE-II
ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR ACTIVITIES
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy of the Company is framed in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder. In the event of any subsequent amendments to the Companies Act, 
2013 or other applicable regulations which render any provisions of this Policy inconsistent with such laws or regulations, the 
provisions of the amended law or regulation shall prevail. The Policy will be suitably amended, as required, to align with such 
changes. The CSR Policy shall be periodically reviewed by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, either in response 
to regulatory changes or as deemed appropriate by the Committee. Any modifications or amendments recommended by the 
Committee will be placed before the Board of Directors for their approval.
2.	
Composition of CSR Committee:
Name of Directors
Position
No. of 
Meetings 
entitled to 
attend
No. of 
meetings 
attended
Remarks
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel (Non- Executive Director)
Chairman
3
3
-
Dr. Sachin D. Patel (Non- Executive Director)
Member
3
3
-
Mr. Siddharth Kusumgar (Independent Director)
Member
1
1
Appointed as member w.e.f. 
26th July, 2024
Dr. Vikram Sanghvi  (Independent Director)
Member
2
2
Resigned with effect from the 
closing 
business 
hours 
of 
5th November 2025 on attaining 
the age of 75 years.
	
During the financial year, three (3) meetings were held on 14th May, 2024, 26th July, 2024 & 14th February, 2025.
3.	
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the Board are 
disclosed on the website of the Company: 
•	
Composition of CSR committee: http://www.gtbl.in/about-us/committees-of-board
•	
CSR Policy: http://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/CSR-Policy.pdf 
•	
CSR projects: https://www.gtbl.in/corporate-social-responsibility/ 
4.	
Provide the details of impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of Companies 
(CSR Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report): Not Applicable
5.	
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (CSR Policy) Rules, 
2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any: Not Applicable
6.	
Average net profit of the company as per section 135(5): Rs.72,08,90,389
7.	
(a)	 2% of average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5): Rs.1,44,17,807
(b)	 Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programs or activities of the previous financial years: NIL 
(c)	 Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any: NIL 
(d)	 Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c): Rs.1,44,17,807
8.	
(a)	 CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year: 
Total Amount Spent 
for the Financial 
Year (Rs.)
Amount Unspent (Rs.)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
3,33,333
1,40,84,474
29.04.2025
NIL 
NIL 
NIL 
35
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
(b)	 Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year: 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Sl. 
No.
Name of 
the Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
schedule VII 
to the Act
Local 
Area 
(Yes/ 
No)
Location of 
the Project
Project 
duration
Amount 
allocated for 
the project 
(in Rs.)
Amount 
spent 
in the 
Current 
Financial 
Year
(in Rs.)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account for 
the project as 
per section 
135(6) (in 
Rs.)
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Direct 
(Yes/ No)
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Through 
Implementing Agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
1
Rustomjee 
Academy 
for Global 
Careers  
Promoting 
Education, 
Research & 
Innovation
Yes Gujarat Valsad 3 Years 1,40,84,474
0
1,40,84,474
Yes
NA
NA
(b)	 Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year: 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sr. 
No.
Name of the 
Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
Schedule 
VII to the 
Act
Local 
Area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of the Project
Amount 
Spent for the 
project
(in Rs.)
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Direct (Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation 
- Through Implementing 
Agency
State
District
Name
CSR registration 
number
1.
Indian 
Chemical 
Society
Promoting 
Education, 
Research & 
Innovation
No
Maharashtra
Mumbai 
3,33,333
Yes
NA
Not Applicable
TOTAL
3,33,333
(c)	 Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: Not Applicable
(d)	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Not Applicable
(e)	 Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e): Rs. 3,33,333
(f)	
Excess amount for set off, if any: NIL 
Sr. No.
Particulars
Amount (in Rs.)
(i)
2% of average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)
1,44,17,807
(ii)
Total amount spent for the financial year 2024-25
3,33,333
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
NIL 
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programs or activities of the previous financial 
years, if any
NIL 
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years[(iii)-(iv)]
NIL 
9.	
(a)	 Details of unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
Sr. 
No.
Preceding 
financial year
Amount transferred 
to Unspent CSR 
Account under 
section 135 (6)
 (in Rs.)
Amount spent 
in the reporting 
financial year 
(in Rs.)
Amount transferred to any fund 
specified under Schedule VII as per 
section 135(6) if any
Amount remaining 
to be spent in 
succeeding 
financial years 
(in Rs.)
Name of 
the fund
Amount 
(in Rs.)
Date of 
transfer
1
2022-23
76,55,554
76,55,554
Not Applicable
0
2
2023-24
1,18,53,578
84,74,000
33,79,578
TOTAL
1,95,09,132
1,61,29,554
33,79,578
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
36
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
(b)	 Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Sr. 
No.
Project ID
Name of the 
project
Financial 
Year in 
which the 
project was 
commenced
Project 
duration
Total 
amount 
allocated 
for the 
project 
(in Rs.)
Amount 
spent on 
the project 
in the 
reporting 
financial 
year (in Rs.)
Cumulative 
amount 
spent at 
the end of 
reporting 
financial 
year (in Rs.)
Status 
of the 
project – 
completed 
/ ongoing
1
Promoting 
health care 
including 
preventive 
health care
Promoting 
health care 
including 
preventive 
health care
2022-23
3 years
1,00,00,000
22,76,000
22,76,000
Completed
2023-24
3 years
77,24,000
1,00,00,000
Completed
2
Promoting 
education, 
including special 
education and 
employment 
enhancing 
vocational skills 
Promoting 
education, 
including special 
education and 
employment 
enhancing 
vocational skills 
2022-23
3 years
80,29,540
53,79,540
53,79,540
Ongoing
2023-24
3 years
6,50,000
60,29,540
Ongoing
3
Setting up old 
age homes, day 
care centers 
and such other 
facilities for 
senior citizens 
Setting up old 
age homes, day 
care centers 
and such other 
facilities for 
senior citizens
2023-24
3 years
1,00,000
1,00,000
1,00,000
Completed
4
Ensuring 
environmental 
sustainability 
Ensuring 
environmental 
sustainability 
2023-24
3 years
8,60,000
0
0 
Ongoing
5.
Slum area 
development
Slum area 
development
2023-24
3 years
5,00,000
0
0
Ongoing
TOTAL
1,94,89,540
1,61,29,540
1,61,29,540
10.	 In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through 
CSR spent in the financial year. (asset-wise details): N.A.
11.	 Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend 2% of the average net profit as per section 135(5).
	
The Company was in the process of identifying a suitable CSR project, which was under evaluation for a major part of the 
financial year and was finalized towards the end of the year. Accordingly, the unspent CSR amount was allocated to the 
project and, in compliance with Section 135(6) of the Companies Act, 2013, the same was transferred to the Unspent CSR 
Account within the prescribed time for utilization in accordance with the Company’s CSR Policy.
 	
Place: Mumbai
Date: 20th May, 2025 
On behalf of the Board of Directors
for Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
Sd/-
Dr. Dinesh S Patel
Chairman 
DIN: 00033273
Sd/-
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
Director 
DIN: 00033353
37
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
ANNEXURE III
INFORMATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 197(12) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 READ WITH RULE 5(1) OF THE COMPANIES 
(APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL) RULES, 2014.	
1.	
The percentage increase in remuneration of Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary of the 
Company for the financial year 2024-25:
Name 
% Increase in the 
remuneration 
Ratio of the remuneration of each Director / to 
median remuneration of the employees.
Mr. Tapas Guha Thakurata
8.47%
5.38
Mr. Bharat Desai
8%
4.49
Mr. Bhavik Shah
NA
3.92
Mr. Vineet Gawankar
NA
6.34
Mr. Rahul Soni 
NA
1.65
	
Note: 
	
The Company has paid commission to its Non-Executive Directors and sitting fees to its Independent Directors attending 
Board and Board Committee meetings during the year.
2.	
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year: (2.33%)
3.	
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company: 224
4.	
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial Personnel in the last 
financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and 
point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration: 
	
Average percentile increase made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last financial year 
i.e. 2024-25 was 6.00%, while the average percentile increase in the remuneration of managerial personnel was 8.23%. 
	
Average increase in the remuneration of the employees other than the Managerial Personnel and that of the managerial 
personnel is in line with the industry practice and is within the normal range.
5.	
The key parameters for any variable components of remuneration availed by the Directors: 
	
Non-Executive Directors receive only sitting fees from the Company and commission in certain cases.
6.	
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company: 
	
It is affirmed that the remuneration paid to Key Managerial Personnel and other employees is as per the Remuneration Policy 
of the Company.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
38
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
ANNEXURE IV
DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO SECTION 134(3)(M) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 
READ WITH RULE 8 OF THE COMPANIES (ACCOUNTS) RULES, 2014
(A) 	 Conservation of energy:
Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy
The Company has commenced the construction of a new 
Fermentation Block, with a conscious focus on energy efficiency. 
Major utilities and machinery selected for installation in this block 
are energy-efficient and compliant with modern conservation 
standards. This includes the selection of low-energy-consuming 
compressors, pumps and systems. 
Steps taken by the Company for utilizing alternate sources 
of energy
NIL 
Capital investment on energy conservation equipment
NIL 
(B)	 Technology absorption:
Efforts made towards technology absorption
-
Benefits derived like product improvement, cost reduction, 
product development or import substitution
1)	
The Company has successfully commissioned an Active 
Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) facility, featuring three 
distinct production streams within a single plant. This 
technological integration allows for the simultaneous 
manufacturing of three different products, enhancing 
production flexibility and capacity utilization.
	
The adoption of this multi-stream manufacturing model 
demonstrates the Company’s proactive approach 
towards adopting advanced pharmaceutical production 
technologies, which not only optimize space and 
resources but also improve operational efficiency.
2)	
A Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) Plant is under the final 
stages of commissioning. This facility is designed 
to treat industrial effluent and recycle the treated 
water back into the system, significantly reducing the 
consumption of fresh water and ensuring environmental 
compliance.
In case of imported technology (imported during the last three years reckoned from the beginning of the financial year): No 
technology has been imported during the last three years. 
• 	 Details of technology imported 
NA
• 	 Year of import
NA
• 	 Whether the technology has been fully absorbed
NA
• 	 If not fully absorbed, areas where absorption has not 
taken place and the reasons thereof
NA
Expenditure incurred on Research and Development
NA
(C)	 Foreign exchange earnings and outgo:
Particulars
1st April, 2024 to 
31st March, 2025
1st April, 2023 to 
31st March, 2024
Amount in (Rs. Lakhs)
Amount in (Rs. Lakhs)
Actual foreign exchange earnings
NIL 
NIL 
Actual foreign exchange outgo
489.87
325.03
39
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS REPORT
Cautionary Statement:
The statements in the “Management Discussion and Analysis Report” describe the Company's objectives, projections, estimates 
and expectations which may be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the applicable laws and regulations. The 
actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied, depending upon the economic and climatic conditions, 
government policies, taxation and other laws and other incidental factors.
Financial Overview:
The financial performance of the Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025, is as under:
Total revenue from operations stood at Rs. 150.80 Crores for the year ended 31st March, 2025, as against Rs. 169.82 Crores for 
the corresponding previous financial year, a decrease of 11.20%.
The total cost of raw materials incurred (including changes in inventory) for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025 was Rs. 
24.51 Crores as against Rs. 36.68 Crores for the corresponding previous period.
The EBIDTA (earnings before interest, depreciation and tax, excluding other income) was Rs. 68.84 Crore for the year ended 31st 
March, 2025, as against Rs. 78.73 Crore for the corresponding previous period, a decline of 12.56%.
The PAT (profit after tax) was Rs. 48.77 Crores for the year ended 31st March, 2025, as against Rs. 59.16 Crores for the corresponding 
previous period, a decline of 17.56%.
Business category wise performance:
GTBL operates in one segment i.e. pharmaceuticals intermediaries and APIs. The Company is presently manufacturing Rifamycin 
S, which is an intermediate for manufacturing the drug Rifampicin (an Antibiotic used for the treatment of several types of bacterial 
infections, including tuberculosis, Mycobacterium avium complex, leprosy and Legionnaires' disease) and Rifamycin O, which is 
an intermediate for manufacturing the drug Rifaximin (this is an Antibiotic used for treatment of traveler's diarrhea, irritable bowel 
syndrome and hepatic encephalopathy).
Risks & Concerns:
The business of the Company is exposed to some risks. 
Unfavourable Policy Changes
Drug pricing and other policies and laws are subject to changes by the Government. Any potentially adverse changes in government 
policies with respect to essential medicines and pricing with respect to the products may impact the revenue and/or margins of 
the Company.
Competition Risk
The Company operates in a competitive space, with the presence of domestic as well as Chinese peers. GTBL has key differentiators 
in terms of R&D, execution, quality and delivery which make it resilient to competition. The Company continues to invest in R&D 
and its talent pool to maintain a competitive edge. Stable and long-standing client relationships further help maintain a strong 
order book and insulate the Company from this risk. GTBL also mitigate this risk with its robust infrastructure and specialized 
fermentation-based methodologies, coupled with prudent financial management and tight control over costs.
Input Cost Risk
Our profitability and cost effectiveness are potentially impacted by changes in the prices of raw materials, power and other input/
utility costs. This is offset by stringent efficiency measures and cost saving initiatives.
OPPORTUNITIES & THREATS
Opportunities
Growth in Pharma Sector
Growth in Pharma sector is driven by rising lifestyle diseases, an aging population, increased focus on holistic health and the 
growing consumerization of healthcare. India allows 100 percent FDI under automatic approval for greenfield investments and 
up to 74 percent for brownfield investments, with higher stakes requiring government approval, making it a prime destination for 
global investors seeking growth in the healthcare and life sciences domain.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
40
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Outsourced Manufacturing in Global Pharma Sector
There is an increasing trend of outsourcing manufacturing for various drugs and pharma products across the world. Pharmaceutical 
research firms are increasingly looking to focus on R&D and outsource the manufacturing to Companies that have requisite 
manufacturing expertise. Such trends present new opportunities for Companies that can leverage their production capacities. 
The contract Research and manufacturing service (CRAMS) segment is experiencing rapid growth which will augur well for the 
Company.
Government Support
-	
Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme: aimed at boosting domestic manufacturing. This is part of a broader effort to 
reduce import dependence and enhance self-reliance. 
-	
Customs Duty Exemptions: The Union Budget 2025 proposed adding 36 life-saving drugs and medicines, including treatments 
for cancer and rare diseases, to the list of items fully exempted from Basic Customs Duty. This measure aims to improve the 
affordability and accessibility of essential medications. 
-	
Expansion of Medical Education and Cancer Care: The government announced plans to add 10,000 new seats in medical 
colleges across India, with a target of increasing by 75,000 seats over five years. 
-	
Pharmaceutical Promotion & Development Scheme (PPDS): This scheme focuses on promoting the pharmaceutical sector 
by providing financial support for seminars, conferences, exhibitions and studies to facilitate growth and export promotion. 
Source: https://kpmg.com/in/en/services/tax/india-union-budget-2024-25.html
https://www.expresspharma.in/mixed-reactions-from-pharma-to-union-budget-2025/#:~:text=We%20applaud%20the%20
exemption%20of,diseases%2C%20and%20other%20chronic%20conditions.
https://www.impriindia.com/insights/union-budget-2024-25-healthcare/#google_vignette
Threats
Threat from Global Competitors
Indian pharma companies face competition from bigger, global pharma companies, backed by larger financial strength, as well 
as from China-based players. 
Threat from Generics
Generic drugs offer cost-effective alternatives to drugs innovators and significant savings to customers. Increasing adoption of 
such alternatives could impact market share of innovation-based drug developers.
Internal control system and adequacy
The Company ensures the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to Company’s policies, the 
safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.
The Statutory and Internal Auditors while conducting the audit, review and evaluate the internal controls and their observations are 
discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board. Other statutory requirements especially, in respect of pharmaceutical business 
are also vigorously followed in order to have better internal controls over the affairs of the Company.
Industry structure and developments
Cost Competitiveness and Manufacturing Excellence
India's pharmaceutical sector benefits from cost advantages due to lower labor costs, economies of scale and efficient 
manufacturing processes. This enables Indian firms to offer competitively priced products globally. The industry's broad reach 
and diversity provide resilience and adaptability, allowing companies to navigate market volatility and meet diverse supply chain 
demands effectively.​
Government Initiatives for Pharmaceuticals Industry
The Union Budget 2024-25 reflects a forward-looking and inclusive vision for the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors, 
emphasizing affordability, innovation and self-reliance.
41
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
A strong emphasis has been placed on intellectual property rights (IPR) to encourage domestic pharmaceutical companies to 
invest in new drug development and bolster India's position as a global pharmaceutical hub.
The budget outlines strategic initiatives to boost local manufacturing under the ‘Make in India’ program, reducing dependence on 
imports and ensuring a robust supply chain for essential medicines.
To enhance accessibility and affordability, policy measures have been proposed to regulate the pricing of essential drugs and 
improve their availability across urban and rural areas.
The government plans to expand healthcare infrastructure and invest in medical technology to strengthen the industry’s capabilities 
and provide better healthcare solutions.
Public-private partnerships are being encouraged to foster innovation, accelerate drug development and improve healthcare 
delivery across the country.
The budget also highlights regulatory reforms aimed at streamlining the approval process for new drugs and medical devices, 
ensuring faster market access and better patient outcomes.
Source: https://www.expresspharma.in/union-budget-2024-25-reflects-a-forward-looking-and-inclusive-approach/
Company’s Strategy
GTBL is focusing on organic growth initiatives to capitalize on the rising market opportunities.
The Company is expanding its growth avenues through an ongoing capex plan which will help increase its product portfolio as 
well as position in the overall value chain. As part of this strategy, the Company has been investing in new product development 
through R&D, as well as forward integration into API and lastly, in expanding its fermentation capacity.
Consequently, the Company aims to expand its product portfolio with new fermentation-based molecules, as well as some APIs.
The increase in top line and profitability of the Company have continued to sustain over the last year. The Company is fully aware 
of its capabilities and strengths and is going ahead with the expansion initiatives.
Segment–wise or product-wise performance:
The Company operates in single segment i.e., pharmaceuticals intermediaries and APIs. The results of the Company under review 
depict business growth during the period.
Operational Performance:
The operational performance during the year under review has grown year-on-year. The Company has maintained its levels of 
production at optimal utilization. Demand for both products has also remained healthy.
Outlook
The pharmaceutical industry in India is a significant part of the nation's foreign trade and offers lucrative potential for investors. 
Millions of people around the world receive affordable and inexpensive generic medications from India, which also runs a sizable 
number of plants that adhere to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) standards set by the World Health Organization (WHO) and 
the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA). 
Among nations that produce pharmaceuticals, India has long held the top spot. Medicine spending in India is projected to grow 
9-12% over the next five years, leading India to become one of the top 10 countries in terms of medicine spending. Going forward, 
better growth in domestic sales would also depend on the ability of companies to align their product portfolio towards therapies 
such as such as cardiovascular, anti-diabetes, anti-depressants and anti-cancers for chronic diseases, which are on the rise. 
The Indian Government has taken many steps to reduce costs and bring down healthcare expenses. The National Health 
Protection Scheme, which aims to offer universal healthcare, the ageing population, the rise in chronic diseases and other 
government programmes, including the opening of pharmacies that offer inexpensive generic medications, should all contribute 
to boost the Indian pharmaceutical industry. 
Source: https://www.ibef.org/industry/pharmaceutical-india
The Company is investing in:
•	
Expanding fermentation capacities; and
•	
Forward integration into API, through an API facility
•	
R&D for new product development;
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
42
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
This capex is well underway and the new facilities will comply with global standards.
With R&D and manufacturing capacities in place, the Company GTBL is in a good position to capitalize on the significant growth 
opportunities in this sector going forward in the domestic as well as global markets.
Material developments in Human Resources/Industrial Relations front, including number of people employed:
The core of the Human Resource philosophy at Gujarat Themis Biosyn Ltd. is empowering human resources towards achievement 
of Company target aspirations. Your Company has a diverse mix of youth and experience which nurtures the business. As on 
31st March 2025 the total employee strength was 224.
Sources: https://www.ibef.org/industry/pharmaceutical-india 
https://www.ibef.org/download/1659942652_Pharmaceuticals-June_2022.pdf 
https://www.ibef.org/industry/pharmaceutical-india.aspx
43
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company has complied with the requirements of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Chapter IV of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
1.	
PHILOSOPHY ON CODE OF GOVERNANCE:
	
The Company remains committed to maintaining high standards of Corporate Governance. Over the years, it has complied 
with the statutory requirements by adopting various systems to enhance transparency, internal controls, accountability and 
trust with all stakeholders including investors, employees, suppliers and customers. The Board, comprising experienced 
professionals, continues to guide the Company in its governance practices. The Company aims to achieve greater 
transparency and accountability in its operations and business conduct, both internally and externally.
2.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
	
(1) 	 Composition of the Board
 
The Company is in full compliance with the Corporate Governance requirements with respect to the composition of its 
Board of Directors.
	
The Company’s Board comprises Directors in accordance with the provisions of the SEBI Listing, Regulations, 2015 
(the “SEBI Listing Regulations”) on Corporate Governance. The Board represents an optimum mix of professionals and 
experts. 
	
The present strength of the Board is 6 (Six) Non-Executive Directors comprising 2 (two) Promoter Directors and 4 (Four) 
Independent Professional Directors in which 1(One) is Independent Woman Director. 
	
Mr. Hitesh D. Gajaria (DIN: 10044310) and Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan (DIN: 00019325) were inducted as Non-Executive 
Independent Directors on 14th May, 2024 and 26th July, 2024 respectively. The shareholders confirmed the appointment 
of Mr. Gajaria at the Annual General Meeting convened on 23rd July, 2024 while Mr. Ananthakrishnan’s appointment was 
ratified through a postal ballot process concluded on 13th October, 2024.
	
Further, Mr. Vijay Agarwal (DIN: 00058548) ceased to hold office as an Independent Director upon 
completion of his second term on 23rd July, 2024 coinciding with the conclusion of the Annual General 
Meeting. Additionally, Dr. Vikram Sanghvi (DIN: 06858267) tendered his resignation from the Board effective 
from the close of business on 5th November, 2024, following his attainment of 75 years of age. The Board 
recorded its appreciation for the dedication and valuable services rendered by both Mr. Vijay Agarwal and 
Dr. Vikram Sanghvi as Independent Directors of the Company.
	
(2) 	 Appointment and Tenure:
	
The Directors of the Company are appointed by members at the General Meetings and two-third Directors, other than 
Independent Directors, retire by rotation pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. 
	
(3) 	 Board Independence:
 
Based on the confirmation / disclosures received from the Directors and on evaluation of the relationships disclosed, all 
the Non-Executive Independent Directors are independent in terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
	
Composition of the Board is as follows:
Name of the Director and 
DIN
Category
Date of initial 
Appointment/
Re-
appointment 
in current term 
Attendance 
at the last 
Annual 
General 
Meeting 
held on 23rd 
July, 2024
Number of 
Directorship 
in other 
Companies 
(including 
this 
Company) #
Number of Committee 
positions held in other 
Companies (including 
this Company) ##
Chairperson
Member
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel@
(DIN:00033273)
Non-Executive 
Promoter Director-
Chairman
25-05-1992
Yes
2
0
1
Dr. Sachin D. Patel@
(DIN:00033353)
Non-Executive 
Promoter Director
25-10-2008
Yes
2
1
3
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
44
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Name of the Director and 
DIN
Category
Date of initial 
Appointment/
Re-
appointment 
in current term 
Attendance 
at the last 
Annual 
General 
Meeting 
held on 23rd 
July, 2024
Number of 
Directorship 
in other 
Companies 
(including 
this 
Company) #
Number of Committee 
positions held in other 
Companies (including 
this Company) ##
Chairperson
Member
Mr. Siddharth Kusumgar
(DIN:01676799)
Independent Director
21-09-2020
No
1
0
2
Ms. Kirandeep Madan
(DIN:00686547)
Independent Woman 
Director
01-05-2021
No
1
0
0
Mr. Hitesh Gajaria
(DIN: 10044310) ^
Independent Director
14/05/2024
No
1
1
0
Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan
(DIN: 00019325) ^
Independent Director
26/07/2024
NA
3
1
2
Dr. Vikram D. Sanghvi
(DIN: 06858267) *
Independent Director
21-09-2020
Yes
0
0
0
Mr. Vijay Agarwal
(DIN: 00058548) **
Independent Director
27-08-2019
Yes
0
0
0
Notes: 
# Directorship in private limited companies, foreign companies and companies formed under section 8 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 are excluded.
## Positions in Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee are only considered.
@ Relatives as per provisions of Section 2(77) of the Companies Act, 2013.
^ Mr. Hitesh Gajaria and Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan appointed as Independent Directors w.e.f.14th May, 2024 and 26th 
July, 2024 respectively.
*Dr. Vikram Sanghvi resigned with effect from 5th November, 2024 upon attaining the age of 75 years.
** End of the term as Independent Director of the Company on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Members 
of the Company held on 23rd July, 2024.
	
Names of the listed entities where the person is a Director and category of Directorship: 
Name of the Director
Name of the listed entities and category of Directorship
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel
i) 	
Themis Medicare Ltd - Promoter - Executive Director, Chairman
ii) 	
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Ltd - Promoter - Non-Executive Director, Chairman
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
i) 	
Themis Medicare Ltd - Promoter - Managing Director & CEO
ii) 	
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Ltd - Promoter - Non-Executive Director, up to 30th June, 2025
	
	
	
	
             - Managing Director, w.e.f 1st July, 2025
Mr. Siddharth Y. Kusumgar
i) 	
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Ltd - Non-Executive Independent Director
Ms. Kirandeep Madan
i) 	
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Ltd - Non-Executive Woman Independent Director
Mr. Hitesh Gajaria
i)	
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Ltd - Non-Executive Independent Director 
Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan
i) 	
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Ltd - Non-Executive Independent Director
ii) 	
Punjab National Bank - Non-Executive Independent Director, Chairman
iii) 	 Suven Pharmaceuticals Ltd - Non-Executive Independent Director
(4)	 Matrix setting out the Core Skills/Expertise/Competence of the Board of Directors:
	
The Board skill matrix provides a guide as to the core skills, expertise, competencies and other criteria (collectively 
referred to as ‘skill sets’) considered appropriate by the Board of the Company in the context of its business and 
sector(s) for it to function effectively and those actually available with the Board. 
45
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
	
Following are the skills/expertise/core competencies identified of the Board members for its effective functioning in 
terms of Schedule V of Regulation 34(3) of the Listing Regulations:
Sr. No.
Particulars
1.
Healthcare Industry Knowhow
2.
Creating value through Intellectual Property Rights
3.
Global Operations
4.
Value Spotting and Inorganic Growth
5.
Research & Development
6.
Strategic Planning
7.
Risk and Regulatory Compliance
8.
Marketing & Customer Engagement
9.
Finance, Accounts, Tax & Audit
10.
Legal & Governance
	
Skills/expertise/core competencies available to the Board members for effective functioning of the Company:	
Sr. No. Name
Core Competencies
1.
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel
-	
Healthcare Industry Knowhow
-	
Creating value through Intellectual Property Rights
-	
Global Operations
-	
Value Spotting and Inorganic Growth
-	
Strategic Planning
-	
Marketing & Customer Engagement
2.
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
-	
Healthcare Industry Knowhow
-	
Creating value through Intellectual Property Rights
-	
Global Operations
-	
Value Spotting and Inorganic Growth
-	
Strategic Planning
-	
Marketing & Customer Engagement
3.
Mr. Siddharth Kusumgar
-	
Creating value through Intellectual Property Rights
-	
Global Operations
-	
Strategic Planning
-	
Marketing & Customer Engagement
4.
Ms. Kirandeep Madan
-	
Marketing & Customer Engagement
-	
Healthcare Industry Knowhow
5.
Mr. Hitesh Gajaria
-	
Global Operations
-	
Value Spotting and Inorganic Growth
-	
Strategic Planning
-	
Risk and Regulatory compliance
-	
Finance, Accounts, Tax & Audit
-	
Legal & Governance
6.
Mr. K. G. Anathakrishnan
-	
Healthcare Industry Knowhow
-	
Creating value through Intellectual Property Rights
-	
Global Operations
-	
Value Spotting and Inorganic Growth
-	
Strategic Planning
-	
Marketing & Customer Engagement
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
46
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
	
(5)	 Declarations from Independent Directors:
	
The Company has received declarations from all the Independent Directors confirming that they meet the criteria 
of independence as provided under Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
Based on declarations received from all the Independent Directors of the Company, the Board is of the opinion that the 
Independent Directors fulfill the conditions specified in the Companies Act, 2013 & Rules framed thereunder and the 
SEBI Listing Regulations as amended and they are independent of the management of the Company.
	
Further, in accordance with Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Independent Directors have confirmed 
that they are not aware of any circumstance or situation which exists or is reasonably anticipated that could affect their 
ability to perform their duties.
(6)	 Shareholdings of Non – Executive Directors in the Company as on 31st March, 2025:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Directors
No. of Equity shares held
% holding
1.
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel
35,255
0.03
2.
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
53,250
0.05
3.
Mr. Siddharth Kusumgar
NIL 
NIL 
4.
Ms. Kirandeep Madan
NIL 
NIL 
5.
Mr. Hitesh Gajaria
NIL 
NIL 
6.
Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan
NIL 
NIL 
(7)	 Separate Meetings of Independent Directors:
	
As required under Regulation 25 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, separate meetings of the Independent Directors of 
the Company were held on 18th November, 2024 and 25th March, 2025. The meeting held on 25th March, 2025 was 
convened inter alia to evaluate the performance of Non-Independent Directors including the Chairman, the Board and its 
Committees as a whole and to assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of information flow between the Company’s 
management and the Board.
(8)	 Familiarization Programme for Independent Directors:
	
All Directors inducted on the Board are introduced to the Company’s culture through appropriate orientation sessions. 
Presentations are made by the Senior Management to provide an overview of the Company’s operations and businesses 
& operations and to familiarize new Non-Executive Directors with its functioning. They are also introduced to the 
organization structure, services, Board procedures and key risks and management strategy. These efforts are aimed at 
enabling Independent Directors to understand the business & operations and strategy and to leverage their expertise 
and experience for the maximum benefit of the Company. Details of the programs conducted by the Company during the 
financial year 2024-25 are available on its website at https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Familarization-
Programme-2024-25.pdf
	
(9)	 Board Meetings:
	
	
During the financial year, 7 (Seven) Board Meetings were held on the following dates: -
•	
14th May, 2024 
•	
26th July, 2024 
•	
25th October, 2024 
•	
8th November, 2024 
•	
18th November, 2024 
•	
14th February, 2025 
•	
25th March, 2025
47
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
Name of Directors
No. of Meetings 
entitled to attend 
during the year 
No. of 
Meetings 
attended
Remarks
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel
7
7
-
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
7
7
-
Mr. Siddharth Kusumgar
7
5
-
Ms. Kirandeep Madan
7
7
-
Mr. Hitesh Gajaria
6
6
Appointed w.e.f. 14th May, 2024
Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan 
5
5
Appointed w.e.f. 26th July, 2024
Dr. Vikram Sanghvi 
3
3
Resigned w.e.f. 5th November, 2024 upon 
attaining the age of 75 years
Mr. Vijay Agarwal 
1
1
Second term ended on conclusion of AGM 
held on 23rd July, 2024.
(10)	Committees of Board
	
Committees of the Board perform a critical role in ensuring operational governance. Committees are constituted 
pursuant to the approval of the Board to carry out their clearly defined roles.
	
Each Committee is guided by its terms of reference. Recommendations and/ or observations of the Committees are 
placed before the Board for information or approval. During the year under review, the Board has accepted all the 
recommendations of all the Committees on matters where such a recommendation is mandatorily required.
	
The Board has currently established the following statutory Committees:
a. Audit Committee; 
b. Nomination & Remuneration Committee;
c. Stakeholders Relationship Committee; 
d. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee;
e. Risk Management Committee
A.	
Audit Committee: 
	
The members of the Audit Committee have wide exposure and knowledge in area of finance and accounting. The 
terms of reference of the Audit Committee have been in line with Regulation 18 of SEBI Listing Regulations and 
Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013. The Audit Committee, inter alia, provides reassurance to the Board on the 
existence of an effective internal control environment.
	
The terms of reference of the Audit committee are briefly described below:
1.	
Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information. 
2.	
Recommending to the Board, the appointment, re-appointment and, if required, the replacement or removal of 
the statutory auditor and the fixation of audit fees. 
3.	
Reviewing and monitoring the auditor’s independence and performance.
4.	
Recommending to the Board, the appointment and remuneration of Cost Auditor. 
5.	
Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other services rendered by the statutory auditors. 
6.	
Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements and quarterly financial statements. 
7.	
Reviewing with the management, performance of internal auditors and adequacy of the internal control 
systems. 
8.	
Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and frequency of internal audit. 
9.	
Discussing with internal auditors any significant findings and follow-up thereon. 
10.	 Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters where there is 
suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material nature and reporting the 
matter to the Board. 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
48
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
11.	 Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences. 
12.	 To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors. 
13.	 To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower mechanism. 
14.	 Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of the Company with related parties. 
15.	 To scrutinize inter-corporate loans and investments.
16.	 To evaluate internal financial controls and risk managements systems. 
17.	 Approval of appointment of Chief Financial Officer.
Composition of the Audit Committee and details of meetings held & attended during the year:
During the financial year, 7 (Seven) Audit Committee Meetings were held on the following dates: -
•	
14th May, 2024 
•	
26th July, 2024 
•	
25th October, 2024 
•	
8th November, 2024 
•	
18th November, 2024 
•	
14th February, 2025 
•	
25th March, 2025
Name of Directors
Position
No. of Meetings 
entitled to attend
No. of meetings 
attended
Remarks
Mr. Hitesh Gajaria 
(Independent Director)
Chairman
6
6
Appointed as Chairman after 
cessation of Mr. Vijay Agarwal
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
(Non-Executive Director)
Member
7
7
-
Mr. Siddharth Kusumgar 
(Independent Director)
Member
7
5
-
Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan 
(Independent Director)
Member
5
5
Appointed as member of the 
committee w.e.f. 25th October, 
2024
Dr. Vikram Sanghvi 
(Independent Director)
Member
3
3
Resigned from close of business 
hours on 5th November 2024 
upon attaining the age of 75 
years.
Mr. Vijay Agarwal
(Independent Director)
Chairman
1
1
Second 
term 
ended 
on 
conclusion of AGM held on 
23rd July, 2024.
	
The Statutory & Internal Auditors were invited to attend the meetings. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to 
the Audit Committee. 
B.	
NOMINATION & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE:
	
In terms of Section 178(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing Regulations the Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee (the “NRC”) has been constituted.
	
The role of the NRC in brief is as follows:
1.	
Formulation of the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a Director 
and recommend to the Board of Directors a policy relating to, the remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and other employees;
2.	
Formulation of criteria for evaluation of performance of Independent Directors and the Board of Directors;
49
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
3.	
Devising a policy on diversity of Board of Directors;
4.	
Identifying persons who are qualified to become Directors and who may be appointed in senior management 
in accordance with the criteria laid down and recommend to the Board of Directors their appointment and 
removal.
5.	
Whether to extend or continue the term of appointment of the Independent Directors, on the basis of the 
report of performance evaluation of Independent Directors.
6.	
Recommend to the Board remuneration in whatever form, payable to the Senior Management.
	
Composition of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and details of meetings held & attended during the 
year:
	
During the financial year, three (3) Nomination & Remuneration committee were held on the following dates: -
•	
14th May, 2024
•	
26th July, 2024
•	
25th October, 2024
Name of Directors
Position
No. of Meetings 
entitled to attend
No. of meetings 
attended
Remarks
Mr. Hitesh Gajaria
(Independent Director)
Chairman
2
2
Appointed as Chairman after 
cessation of Mr. Vijay Agarwal
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
(Non- Executive Director)
Member
3
3
-
Mr. Siddharth Kusumgar
(Independent Director)
Member
3
3
-
Mr. Vijay Agarwal 
(Independent Director)
Chairman
1
1
Second 
term 
ended 
on 
conclusion of AGM held on 
23rd July, 2024.
•	
Board Evaluation:
	
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee has laid down the criteria for evaluating the performance of 
Directors, the Board and its Committees. The Board is committed to assessing its own performance as well 
as that of individual Directors to identify strengths and areas for improvement. The overall effectiveness of 
the Board is also considered for decisions regarding appointment and reappointment of Directors. Details of 
the annual Board evaluation process have been provided in the Board’s Report.
	
The key criteria used for performance evaluation include:
•	
Attendance and contribution at Board and Committee meetings and application of expertise, leadership and 
knowledge to provide strategic direction for enhancing shareholder value.
•	
Ability to foster a performance-driven culture that promotes value creation and encourages high-quality 
debate with robust and constructive discussions.
•	
Capability to monitor management performance and ensure the integrity of financial controls and systems.
•	
For Independent Directors, their contribution in offering independent judgment during deliberations on 
strategy, performance, risk management, resources, key appointments and standards of conduct along with 
their role in objectively evaluating the performance of the Board and management.
	
Remuneration to Directors:
a.	
Pecuniary relationship or transactions of the Non-Executive Directors.
	
The Company has no pecuniary relationship or transaction with its Non-Executive & Independent Directors 
other than payment of sitting fees to them for attending Board and Committee meetings and commission as 
approved by members for their invaluable services to the Company.
	
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel, Non-Executive Chairman and Dr. Sachin D. Patel, Non-Executive Director shall be paid 
commission of Rs.66,00,000 each during the year for FY 2024-25.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
50
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
	
Independent Directors were paid Rs.40,000/- for attending each Board meeting and Rs.25,000/- for attending 
each Audit Committee and Independent Directors’ meetings. With effect from 26th July, 2024, the sitting 
fees increased to Rs.50,000 for attending each Board Meeting and to Rs.30,000 for attending each Audit 
Committee and Independent Directors’ meetings 
b.	
Criteria of making payments to Non-Executive Directors:
	
Criteria of making payments to Non-Executive Directors is disclosed and the same is available on website 
of the Company at https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/Criteria-for-making-payment-to-Non-
Executive-Directors.pdf
c.	
Disclosures with respect to remuneration: in addition to disclosures required under the Companies Act, 2013, 
the following disclosures shall be made:
i.	
All elements of remuneration package of individual Directors summarized under major groups, such as 
salary, benefits, bonuses, stock options, pension etc.: NA
ii.	
Details of fixed component and performance linked incentives, along with the performance criteria: NA
iii.	
Service contracts, notice period, severance fees: NA.
iv.	
Stock option details, if any and whether issued at a discount as well as the period over which accrued 
and over which exercisable: NA
	
The details of sitting fees and commission paid to Directors for the financial year 2024-25 are as 
follows:	
Sr. 
No.
Name of Directors
Salary
Perquisites
Sitting Fees 
(Rs.)
Commission
Total 
(Rs.) 
1.
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
NA
NA
NA
60,00,000
60,00,000
2.
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel
NA
NA
NA
60,00,000
60,00,000
3.
Mr. Siddharth Kusumgar
NA
NA
4,45,000
NA
4,45,000
4.
Ms. Kirandeep Madan
NA
NA
4,00,000
NA
4,00,000
5.
Mr. Hitesh Gajaria
NA
NA
5,40,000
NA
5,40,000
6.
Mr. K. G. Ananthakrishnan
NA
NA
5,10,000
NA
5,10,000
7.
Mr. Vijay Agarwal
NA
NA
65,000
NA
65,000
8.
Dr. Vikram D. Sanghvi
NA
NA
2,25,000
NA
2,25,000
Total
1,41,85,000
C.	
STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE:
	
The Stakeholders Relationship Committee was constituted in line with the provisions of Regulation 20 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations read with section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013. Stakeholders Relationship Committee has 
been constituted to monitor and review investors’ grievances. 
	
The brief terms of reference of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee are as under: 
•	
Consider and resolve the grievances of security holders of the Company including redressal of investor 
complaints such as transfer or credit of securities, non-receipt of dividend / notice / annual reports, etc. and 
all other securities-holders related matters. 
•	
Consider and approve issue of share certificates (including issue of renewed or duplicate share certificates), 
transfer and transmission of securities, etc.
•	
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders.
•	
Review of service standards adopted by the listed entity in respect of various services being rendered by the 
Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
•	
Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the listed entity for reducing the quantum of 
unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/annual reports/statutory notices by the 
shareholders of the Company.
51
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
	
Composition of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and details of meetings held & attended during the 
year:
	
During the financial year, 1 (One) Meeting of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of the Company was held 
on 14th May, 2024
Name of Directors
Position
No. of Meetings entitled to 
attend
No. of meetings 
attended
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
(Non - Executive Director)
Chairman
1
1
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel
(Non - Executive Director)
Member
1
1
Mr. Siddharth Kusumgar
(Independent Director)
Member
1
1
	
The Company Secretary acts as Compliance Officer for redressal of Shareholders/ Invertors’ grievances.
	
Name, designation and address of Compliance Officer: 
Mr. Vineet Gawankar 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
11/12 Udyog Nagar, S.V. Road, Goregaon (West), Mumbai- 400 104.
Details of investor complaints received and redressed during the year 2024-25 are as follows: 
Number of shareholders’ 
complaints received 
Number of complaints not solved to 
the satisfaction of shareholders
Number of pending complaints
11
0
0
D.	
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE:
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee was constituted during the financial year 2019-20 in line with the 
provisions of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
The brief Roles and Responsibilities of the CSR Committee are as follows: 
•	
Formulate, monitor and recommend to the Board, the CSR Policy. 
•	
Recommend to the Board, modifications to the CSR Policy as and when required. 
•	
Recommend to the Board, the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the activities undertaken. 
•	
Review the performance of the Company in the area of CSR, including the evaluation of the impact of the 
Company’s CSR activities. 
•	
Review the Company’s disclosure of CSR matters. 
•	
Consider other functions, as defined by the Board, or as may be stipulated under any law, rule or regulation, 
including the Listing Agreement and the Companies Act, 2013. 
•	
Funds so disbursed have been utilized for the purposes and in the manner as approved by it and the Chief 
Financial Officer shall certify to the effect.
	
Composition of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and details of meetings held & attended during 
the year:
	
During the financial year, three (3) meetings of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of the Company 
were held on the following dates:
•	
14th May, 2024
•	
26th July, 2024
•	
14th February, 2025
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
52
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Name of Directors
Position
No. of Meetings 
entitled to attend
No. of meetings 
attended
Remarks
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel
(Non- Executive Director)
Chairman
3
3
-
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
(Non- Executive Director)
Member
3
3
-
Mr. Siddharth Kusumgar
(Independent Director)
Member
1
1
Appointed as member w.e.f. 26th 
July, 2024
Dr. Vikram Sanghvi 
(Independent Director)
Member
2
2
Resigned on 5th November 2024 
upon attaining the age of 75 
years.
E.	
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:
	
SEBI vide its notification amended the Regulation 21 of the SEBI Listing Regulations to require the Top 1000 Listed 
entities based on Market Capitalization to constitute a Risk Management Committee.
	
The mandate of the Risk Management Committee is to discuss various aspects involved in Business risks to the 
Company and the manner to mitigate the same.
	
The roles & responsibilities of the Risk Management Committee is as follows:
1.	
To formulate a detailed risk management policy which shall include:
a.	
A framework for identification of internal and external risks specifically faced by the listed entity in 
particular including financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability (particularly ESG related risks), 
information, cyber security risks or any other risk as may be determined by the Committee.
b.	
Measures for risk mitigation including systems and processes for internal control of identified risks.
c.	
Business continuity plan.
2.	
To ensure that appropriate methodology, processes and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks 
associated with the business of the Company;
3.	
To monitor and oversee implementation of the risk management policy, including evaluating the adequacy of 
risk management systems;
4.	
To periodically review the risk management policy, at least once in two years, including by considering the 
changing industry dynamics and evolving complexity;
5.	
To keep the Board of Directors informed about the nature and content of its discussions, recommendations 
and actions to be taken;
6.	
The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall be subject to 
review by the Risk Management Committee.
	
Composition of the Risk Management Committee and details of meetings held & attended during the year:
	
During the financial year, two (2) meetings of the Risk Management Committee of the Company were held on the 
following dates:
•	
14th May, 2024
•	
25th October, 2024
Name of Directors
Position
No. of Meetings entitled to 
attend
No. of meetings 
attended
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
(Non- Executive Director)
Chairman
2
2
Mr. Siddharth Kusumgar
(Independent Director)
Member
2
2
Mr. Rajneesh Anand 
(Senior Executive)
Member
2
1
53
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
F.	
Independent Directors Meeting :
	
Pursuant to Regulation 25 of the Listing Regulations, Independent Directors had a separate meeting without the 
presence of Non-Independent Director and members of the Management to inter alia:-
(a)	 review the performance of Non-Independent Directors and the Board of Directors as a whole;
(b) 	 review the performance of the chairperson of the listed entity, taking into account the views of Executive 
Directors and Non-Executive Directors;
(c) 	 assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the management of the listed entity 
and the Board of Directors that is necessary for the Board of Directors to effectively and reasonably perform 
their duties.
	
Details of meetings held & attended during the year:
	
During the financial year, two (2) meetings of the Independent Directors of the Company were held on the following 
dates:
•	
18th November, 2024
•	
25th March, 2025
Name of Directors
Position
No. of Meetings entitled to 
attend
No. of meetings 
attended
Mr. Hitesh Gajaria
Chairman
2
2
Mr. Siddharth Kusumgar
Member
2
2
Ms. Kirandeep Madan 
Member
2
2
Mr. K. G. Anathakrishnan
Member
2
2
G.	
Senior Management Personnel:
	
The details of Senior Management and changes therein since the close of the Previous financial year:
Sr. 
No
Name of Persons
Designation
Remarks
1
Mr. Tapas Guha Thakurata Chief Executive Officer
-
2
Mr. Do Seon Kim
Chief Technical Officer
-
3
Mr. Bapuji Patro
Vice President- Plant Operations
-
4
Mr. Bhavik Shah
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed w.e.f. 14th February, 2025
5
Mr. Bharat Desai
Chief Financial Officer
Resigned w.e.f. 31st December, 2024
6
Mr. Vineet Gawankar
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer Appointed w.e.f. 3rd September, 2024
7
Mr. Rahul Soni
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer Resigned w.e.f. 2nd August, 2024
8
Ms. Falguni Desai 
Assistant General Manager - HR
-
2.	
Code of Conduct 
	
Whilst the Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited Code of Conduct is applicable to all the Directors and employees of the Company, 
the Board has also adopted a Code of Conduct for Non-Executive Directors, which incorporates the duties of Independent 
Directors as laid down in Schedule IV (Code for Independent Directors) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 25 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, both of which are available on the Company’s website: https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/
uploads/2015/08/CODE-OF-CONDUCT-GTBL.pdf
	
All the Board members and Senior Management of the Company as on 31st March, 2025 have affirmed compliance with their 
respective Code of Conduct. A declaration to this effect duly signed by the Chief Executive Officer, forms part of this report.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
54
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
3.	
General Body Meetings:
	
The details of the last three Annual General Meetings are as follows:
AGM/ 
EGM
Date & Time
Location
Special Resolution(s) passed
41st AGM
07-09-2022 at 
12:00 noon
Held 
through 
Video 
Conferencing(‘VC”)/ Other Audio-
Visual Means (“OAVM”)
1.	
Continuation of Dr. Dinesh S. Patel as Non- 
Executive Director upon attaining the age of 
Seventy-Five years.
2.	
To adopt new set of Articles of Association as per 
Companies Act, 2013.
42nd AGM
9th September, 
2023 at 10:30 a.m.
At the Registered Office of Themis 
Medicare Limited, at 69/A, GIDC 
Industrial Estate, Vapi-396195, 
Dist. Valsad, Gujarat.
1.	
Payment of Commission to Dr. Sachin D. Patel, 
Non-Executive Director.
2.	
Payment of Commission to Dr. Dinesh S. Patel, 
Non-Executive Chairman.
43rd AGM
23rd July, 2024 at 
12:00 noon
At the Registered Office of Themis 
Medicare Limited, at 69/A, GIDC 
Industrial Estate, Vapi-396195, 
Dist. Valsad, Gujarat.
1.	
Payment of Commission to Dr. Sachin D. Patel, 
Non-Executive Director.
2.	
Payment of Commission to Dr. Dinesh S. Patel, 
Non-Executive Chairman.
3.	
Appointment of Mr. Hitesh Gajaria (DIN: 10044310) 
as an Independent Director.
•	
Resolutions passed through Postal Ballot, the person who conducted postal ballot exercise and details of voting 
pattern:
	
During the financial year 2024-25, the Company sought approval of the Members by way of Postal Ballot pursuant to 
Section 110 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the rules thereunder, the details of which are given below:
Date of Notice
Last Date for 
receipt of Postal 
Ballot Forms
Date of 
Declaration 
of Result
Name of the 
Scrutinizer
Resolutions passed 
through Postal Ballot
Type of 
Resolution
10th September, 
2024
13th October, 
2024
14th October, 
2024
Mr. 
Ketan 
Ravindra 
Shirwadkar, Proprietor 
of M/s. KRS AND Co., 
Practicing 
Company 
Secretary
To approve appointment of 
Mr. K.G. Ananthakrishnan 
(DIN: 
00019325) 
as 
an 
Independent Director of the 
Company.
Special 
Resolution
Particulars
No. of 
Shares held
No. of 
Votes 
polled
% of Votes 
polled on 
outstanding 
shares
No. of 
Votes-in 
favour
No. of 
Votes 
against
% of 
Votes in 
favour 
on votes 
polled
% of 
Votes 
against 
on votes 
polled
Postal Ballot resolution on 14th October, 2024
To approve appointment of 
Mr. K.G. Ananthakrishnan
(DIN: 00019325) as an 
Independent Director of the 
Company.
10,89,65,265 7,99,48,331
73.37
7,99,47,378
953
99.94
0.06
55
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
4.	
General Shareholders Information:
Annual General Meeting Date & Time
: On 12th September, 2025 at 12:00 Noon
Venue
: Registered Office of Themis Medicare Ltd, Plot No. 69A, G.I.D.C. Industrial 
Estate, Vapi-396195, Gujarat
Financial Calendar year
: April to March (1st April 2025 to 31st March 2026)
Results for the Quarter ending (Tentative)
(With Limited Review by the Statutory Auditors)
First Quarter Results
Half yearly Results
Third Quarter Results
Audited Results for the year ending

By 14th August, 2025
By 14th November, 2025
By 14th February, 2026
By 30th May, 2026
Dividend payment date
: On or after 17th September,  2025
Dates of Book Closure
: 6th September, 2025 to 12th September, 2025 (Both Days Inclusive)
Record Date/Cut-off date
: 5th September, 2025
Listing on Stock Exchange at
: BSE Ltd.
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai 400 001.
Stock code- 506879
: National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE)
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051. 
Stock code- GUJTHEM 
Listing Fees paid for 2025-26
The Company has paid all listing fees to the BSE Ltd and NSE for the 
FY 2025-26.
DEMAT ISIN Number for NSDL & CDSL
: INE942C01045
Website(s)
: www.bseindia.com & www. nseindia.com
	
Share Transfer System: 
	
In terms of Regulation 40(1) of SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, securities can be transferred only in dematerialized 
form w.e.f. 1st April 2019, except in case of request received for transmission or transposition of securities. Members holding 
shares in physical form are requested to consider converting their holdings to dematerialized form. Transfer of equity shares 
in electronic form are effected through the depositories with no involvement of the Company. Share transmission requests 
are approved as and when required.
	
Distribution of Equity Shareholding: 
As on 31st March, 2025
Holding of shares 
(in No.s)
No. of Shareholders
% of Shareholders
No. of Shares
% of Share Capital
1
To
500
26284
83.88
3016333
2.77
501
To
1000
2213
7.06
1663424
1.52
1001
To
2000
1272
4.06
1844955
1.69
2001
To
3000
497
1.58
1255027
1.15
3001
To
4000
259
0.83
933241
0.86
4001
To
5000
152
0.48
693017
0.64
5001
To
10000
320
1.02
2266487
2.08
10001
&
Above
341
1.09
97292781
89.29
Total
31338
100.00
108965265
100.00
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
56
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
	
Dematerialization of Shares:
	
The equity shares of the Company are under compulsory dematerialized (demat) mode and are available for trading under 
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL). As on 31st March 2025, a 
total of 10,77,71,375 equity shares of the Company forming 98.90% of the total paid up share capital stands dematerialized. 
All requests for dematerialization of shares are processed within the stipulated time. The identification allotted to the 
Company’s equity shares is INE942C01045.
Outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any 
Convertible instruments conversion date and 
Likely impact of equity.
: Not Applicable
Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and 
hedging activities;
: Not Applicable
Plant Locations
: 69/C, GIDC Industrial Estate, Vapi, Dist - Valsad, Gujarat-396195, India
Address for Correspondence
: Shareholder's correspondence should be addressed to the Company’s 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent or contact the Company Secretary 
and Compliance Officer at the addresses mentioned below.
Registrar & Share Transfer Agent (For Physical as 
well as Electronic form)
: MUFG Intime India Private Limited
(Formerly Link Intime India Private Limited)
C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083
Tel: 022 - 49186000
Fax: 022 - 49186060
E-mail: rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com 
Web site: https://in.mpms.mufg.com 
For any other matter and unresolved complaints
: Mr. Vineet Gawankar
11/12, Udyog Nagar Industrial Estate, 
S .V. Road, Goregaon (West), Mumbai, Maharashtra 400104
Contact Details: 022 6760 7080
Email ID: cfoassist@themismedicare.com
	
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
	
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (formerly known as Link Intime (India) Private Limited) is the Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent of the Company (R&T Agent). They deal with all matters pertaining to, transmissions, subdivisions and consolidation 
of Company’s securities and also correspondence for holdings in physical shares. It may be noted that the request for 
dematerialization of shares should be made by the investors to their respective depository participants. There are no legal 
proceedings against the Company on any share transfer matter.
5.	
Other Disclosures: 
I.	
Disclosure of Demat /Unclaimed Suspense Account:
	
During the financial year 2024-25, the Company had declared a Bonus Issue on 14th May, 2024 and the allotment of 
bonus shares was completed on 14th August 2024. In respect of physical shareholders who were entitled to bonus 
shares and did not dematerialize their holdings within the prescribed period, their bonus shares have been credited to 
the Suspense Escrow Demat Account.
	
The summary of shares lying in the Suspense Escrow Demat Account as on 31st March, 2025 is as under:
Sr. 
No.
 Particulars
Shareholders
Shares
1
Total no. of shareholders and their shares at the beginning 
2,298
6,24,013
2
No. of shareholders whose shares were transferred from suspense account
22
6,537
3
Total no. of shareholders and their shares lying in the account at the end of the year
2,276
6,17,476
Voting rights on the shares lying in the suspense account shall remain frozen till rightful owner claims the shares. 
57
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
II.	
Materially significant related party transactions:
	
The related party transactions in case of our Company are not materially significant which requires Members’ approval. 
However, Audit Committee and the Board ensure such transactions are at arm’s length.
	
The policy on related party transactions as approved by the Board is uploaded on the Company’s website and the link 
for the same is https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/RPT-Policy_GTBL_14.02.2025.pdf
III.	 Disclosure of Pending Cases/Instances of Non-Compliance:
	
There were no non-compliances by the Company and no instances of penalties and strictures imposed on the Company 
by the Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any other statutory authority on any matter related to the capital market during last 
three years apart from mentioned below:
	
BSE Limited levied a penalty on the Company under Regulation 295(1) of the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018, in connection with the delay in implementing the bonus issue within the stipulated 
period of two months from the date of its approval by the Board of Directors. The Company has paid the said fine and 
subsequently received the trading approval for the bonus shares from BSE Limited with effect from 27th August 2024.
IV.	
Whistle Blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism:
	
The Board of Directors of the Company has pursuant to the provisions of Section 177(9) of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014, framed “Vigil Mechanism Policy” for 
Directors and employees of the Company to provide a mechanism which ensures adequate safeguards to employees 
and Directors from any victimization on raising of concerns of any violations of legal or regulatory requirements, 
incorrect or misrepresentation of any, financial statements and reports, etc. 
	
The employees of the Company have the right/option to report their concern/grievance to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. 
	
The vigil mechanism policy as approved by the Board is uploaded on the Company’s website and the link for the same 
is https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/GTBL-Vigil-Mechanism-or-Whistle-Blower-Policy.pdf
V.	
Details of utilisation of funds raised through Preferential Allotment/ Qualified Institutional Placement: 
	
During financial year 2024-25, the Company has not raised funds through preferential allotment of shares or qualified 
institutional placement.
VI.	 Instances of not accepting any recommendation of the Committee by the Board: 
	
There is no such instance where Board had not accepted any recommendation of any committee of the Board which is 
mandatorily required, in the relevant financial year.
VII.	 Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors:
	
The Company has received a certificate from KRS AND Co., Practising Company Secretaries, confirming that none of 
the Directors on the Board of the Company have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as 
Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India/Ministry of Corporate Affairs/Reserve Bank of 
India or any such statutory authority.
VIII.	Statutory Auditor Remuneration and Network firm Disclosure:
	
Total fees for all services paid by the Company to the Statutory Auditors of the Company is mentioned in Notes to 
financial statements. The Company has not availed any services from the network firm/network entity of which the 
Statutory Auditors is a part.
IX.	 Details of Material Subsidiaries:
	
Not applicable, as the Company has no existing subsidiary and during the financial year 2024-25 has not incorporated 
any subsidiary. 
X.	
Loans and Advances to Entities of Director Interest:
	
Not applicable as the Company has no subsidiary(ies) and has not granted any loans and advances to firms/ companies 
in which Directors are interested.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
58
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
XI.	 Credit Ratings:
	
Credit ratings: In August 2023, CARE Ratings Limited has reaffirmed the rating as “CARE BBB; Stable (CARE Triple 
B; Outlook: Stable)” and “CARE A3+ (CARE A Three Plus) for the long-term banking facilities and short-term banking 
facilities, respectively of the Company. Subsequently there is no revision in the rating for this financial year.
XII.	 Compliance with Corporate Governance Report Requirements:
	
There is no Non-Compliance of any requirement of Corporate Governance Report of sub-para (2) to (10) of the Part C of 
Schedule V of the Listing Regulations.
XIII.	Policy on Material Subsidiaries:
	
The Company has framed a policy for determining “material” subsidiary. However, the Company does not have any 
material subsidiary as of the close of the financial year.
	
The policy on Material Subsidiaries as approved by the Board is uploaded on the Company’s website and the link for the 
same is https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/Policy-for-determining-Material-Subsidiary.pdf
XIV.	 Disclosure on Commodity Price Risks and Hedging Activities:
	
The Company is not dealing in commodity and hence disclosure relating to commodity price risks and commodity 
hedging activities is not applicable.
XV.	 Disclosure of Binding Agreements:
	
There are no such agreements in respect of information disclosed under clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of Schedule 
III of the SEBI Listing Regulations and hence not applicable.
XVI.	Compliance with SEBI Listing Regulations:
	
Disclosure of the Compliance with Corporate Governance Requirements the Company has complied with provisions of 
Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) & (t) of sub- regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
XVII.	Means of Communication:
	
The Company regularly interacts with shareholders through multiple channels of communication such as results 
announcement, Annual Report, Company’s website and subject specific communications.
XVIII.	Financial Results: 
	
The Quarterly, Half yearly and Annual results were published in widely circulated newspapers viz: Western Times in 
English language and Gujarati language. All the data related to quarterly, half yearly and Annual Financial Results, 
Shareholding Pattern, News release etc. is provided under Investor Relations on the website - www.gtbl.in
	
The Quarterly Results, Shareholding Pattern and all other Corporate communication to the Stock Exchanges are 
filed through BSE Listing Centre of BSE Limited and NEAPS platform of National Stock Exchange of India Limited, for 
dissemination on their respective websites.
XIX.	Conference call with Investors: 
	
The Company participates in conference calls to discuss the quarterly / annual financial performance of the Company 
and prior intimation thereof is given to the stock exchanges and is also hosted on the website of the Company. 
XX.	 Investor & analyst meetings: 
	
Details of meetings with investors and analysts are intimated to the stock exchange by the Company in line with 
guidelines of Listing Regulations. The policy on the Investors presentation are uploaded on website of the Company: 
https://www.gtbl.in/presentations/
XXI.	News Releases: 
	
Official press releases, detailed presentations made to media, analysts, institutional investors, etc. are displayed on the 
Company’s website. 
59
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
	
XXII.	Website: 
	
The Company’s website www.gtbl.in provides a separate section for investors where relevant member information is 
available. The Annual Report of the Company is also hosted on the Company’s website.
XXIII.	Non-Mandatory Requirements:
i.	
Shareholder Rights – Half yearly results:
	
As the Company’s half yearly results are published in English newspapers having a circulation all over India and in 
a Gujarati newspaper (having a circulation in Gujarat), the same are not sent to the shareholders of the Company 
but hosted on the website of the Company.
ii.	
Modified opinion(s) in audit report 
	
There are no qualifications or modified opinion in the Audit Report.
iii.	
Separate Posts of Chairperson and CEO:
	
The Posts of Chairperson and CEO are separate.
iv.	
Reporting of Internal Auditors: 
	
The Internal Auditors of the Company report to the Audit Committee and make detailed presentation at quarterly 
meetings.
Place: Mumbai
Date: 20th May, 2025 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Sd/-
Dr. Dinesh S Patel
Chairman 
DIN: 00033273
Sd/-
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
Director 
DIN: 00033353
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
60
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
DECLARATION
I, Mr. Tapas Guha Thakurata, Chief Executive Officer of Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited, hereby declare that all the members of the 
Board of Directors and the Key Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct, applicable to them 
as laid down by the Board of Directors in terms of Schedule V (D) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 for the year ended 31st March, 2025.
Place: Mumbai
Date: 20th May, 2025
	
	
	
	
For Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
Sd/- 
Mr. Tapas Guha Thakurata
Chief Executive Officer
61
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
COMPANY SECRETARY IN PRACTICE’S REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To 
The Members
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited.
69-C, GIDC Industrial Estate, 
Vapi Valsad, Gujarat- 396195, India.
The Corporate Governance Report prepared by Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited (“the Company”), contains details as stipulated 
in regulations 17 to 27 and regulation 46 and para C D and E of Schedule V of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended (“the Listing Regulations”) with respect to Corporate 
Governance for the year ended 31st March 2025 pursuant to the Listing Agreement of the Company with the BSE Limited and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (referred to as the “Stock Exchanges”).
Management’s Responsibility
The preparation of the Corporate Governance Report is the responsibility of the Management of the Company including the 
preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting records and documents. The Management along with the Board of 
Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the Company complies with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated 
in the Listing Regulations, issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India. This responsibility also includes the design, 
implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Corporate Governance 
Report.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, it is my responsibility to provide a reasonable assurance whether for the 
year ended March 31, 2025, the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing 
Regulations.
My examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance of 
the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the 
Company.
Opinion
In my opinion, based on my examination of the Company records and to the best of my information and according to explanations 
given to me and representations provided by the management, I certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of 
Corporate Governance as stipulated, in the above-mentioned Listing Regulations during the year ended 31st March 2025.
Other Matters and Restriction on use
I state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
The certificate is addressed and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose of enabling the Company to 
comply with the requirement of the Listing Regulations, for the year ended 31st March 2025 and it should not be used by any other 
person or for any other purpose. Accordingly, I do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose 
or to any other person to whom this certificate is shown or into whose hands it may come without my prior consent in writing.
Place: Thane
Date: 20th May, 2025
ICSI UDIN: A037829G000393228 
Peer Review No: 3967/2023 
FRN: S2017MH469000
	
	
	
	
For KRS AND CO.
Company Secretaries
Sd/- 
Ketan Ravindra Shirwadkar
Proprietor
ACS No.: 37829
COP No.: 15386
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
62
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
I have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Gujarat Themis 
Biosyn Limited having CIN L24230GJ1981PLC004878 and having registered office at 69/C, GIDC Industrial Estate, Vapi, Valsad, 
Gujarat, India, 396195, (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me by the Company for the purpose of issuing 
this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to me by the Company & its officers, 
I hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the financial year ended on 
31st March, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sr. No. Name of Directors
DIN
Date of Appointment 
1.
Dr. Dinesh S. Patel
00033273
25/05/1992
2.
Dr. Sachin D. Patel
00033353
25/10/2008
3.
Mr. Siddharth Y. Kusumgar
01676799
28/05/2015
4.
Ms. Kirandeep Kaur Madan
00686547
01/05/2021
5.
Mr. Hitesh D. Gajaria
10044310
14/05/2024
6.
Mr. K. G. Anathakrishnan
00019325
26/07/2024
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of 
the Company. My responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on my verification. This certificate is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the 
affairs of the Company.
Place: Thane
Date: 20th May, 2025
ICSI UDIN: A037829G000393239 
Peer Review No: 3967/2023 
FRN: S2017MH469000
	
	
	
	
For KRS AND CO.
Company Secretaries
Sd/- 
Ketan Ravindra Shirwadkar
Proprietor
ACS No.: 37829
COP No.: 15386
63
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
CEO-CFO CERTIFICATE
To, 
The Board of Directors,
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
We, the undersigned, in our respective capacities as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Gujarat 
Themis Biosyn Limited (“the Company”), to the best of our knowledge and belief certify that: 
(a) 	 We have reviewed the financial statements and the cash flow statement for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025 and 
based on our knowledge and belief, we state that: 
(i) 	 These statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain any statements 
that might be misleading. 
(ii) 	 These statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with the existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations. 
(b) 	 We further state that to the best of our knowledge and belief, there are no transactions entered into by the Company during 
the year, which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s Code of Conduct. 
(c) 	 We are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal controls and for evaluating the effectiveness of the same over 
the financial reporting of the Company and have disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the 
design or operation of internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify 
these deficiencies. 
(d) 	 We have indicated, based on our most recent evaluation, wherever applicable, to the Auditors and Audit Committee: 
(i) 	 Significant changes, if any, in the internal control over financial reporting during the year; 
(ii) 	 Significant changes, if any, in the accounting policies made during the year and that the same has been disclosed in the 
notes to the financial statements; and 
(iii) 	 Instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management 
or an employee having significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
For Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited	 	
 	
	
For Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
Sd/-	
	
	
	
	
	
           	
Sd/-
Mr. Tapas Guha Thakurata		
	
	
	
Mr. Bhavik Shah
Chief Executive Officer
Date: 20th May, 2025
Place Mumbai
	
	
	
	
	
Chief Financial Officer
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
64
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (BRSR)
 SECTION A:  GENERAL DISCLOSURES	
I. Details of the listed entity
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company
L24230GJ1981PLC004878
2
Name of the Company
GUJARAT THEMIS BIOSYN LTD
3
Year of incorporation
1981
4
Registered address
Plot No 69-C, GIDC Industrial Estate, Vapi - 396 195, Dist- Valsad, 
Gujarat.
5
Corporate address
11/12 Udyog Nagar, S.V Road, Goregaon West, Mumbai – 400 104.
6
Website
www.gtbl.in
7
Telephone No.
022-67607080
8
E-mail id
cfoassist@themismedicare.com
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2024-25
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are 
listed
BSE Limited 
Stock Code 506879
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Stock code - GUJTHEM
11
Paid-up Capital
Rs.10,89,65,265
12
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) 
of the person who may be contacted in case of any 
queries on the BRSR report
Mr. Vineet Gawankar
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Tel: 022-67607080
Email: cfoassist@themismedicare.com
13
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this 
report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the 
entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and 
all the entities which form a part of its consolidated 
financial statements, taken together).
Disclosures for Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited are made on 
Standalone Basis.
14
Name of assurance provider
Not Applicable
15
Type of assurance obtained
Not Applicable
II. PRODUCTS/SERVICES:
16.	 Details of the business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
Sr. 
No.
Description of main activity
Description of business activity
% of Turnover of the 
entity
1
Manufacture of  Pharmaceuticals 
& Medicinal Chemicals
Engaged in the manufacturing of fermentation-
based 
pharmaceutical 
intermediates 
and 
Active 
Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs)
100%
17.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
Sr. No. Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1
Manufacture of Pharmaceuticals & Medicinal Chemicals.
2100
100%
65
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
III. OPERATIONS:
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of Offices
Total
National
1
1
2
International
0
0
0
19.	 Markets served by the entity
a.	
Number of locations:
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
2
International (No. of Countries)
NIL 
	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 
	
The entity did not undertake any export activities during the reporting period. Accordingly, there was no turnover 
generated from international markets and the entire revenue was derived from domestic operations.
b.	
A brief on types of customers: 
	
The entity supplies Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) to pharmaceutical companies, with a primary focus on 
formulation manufacturers. These customers utilize the APIs as critical raw materials in the production of finished 
dosage forms across various therapeutic segments. The customer base predominantly comprises domestic 
pharmaceutical companies engaged in commercial-scale manufacturing.
IV. EMPLOYEES:
20.	 Details as at the end of financial year
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
220
199
90.45%
21
9.55%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
0
0
0
0
0
3.
Total employees (D + E)
220
199
90.45%
21
9.55%
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
1
0
0
1
100%
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
151
145
96.02%
6
3.98%
6.
Total workers (F + G)
152
145
96.02%
7
4.61%
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
Sr. No. Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
There are no differently abled employees in the Company.
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
3.
Total differently abled employees (D + E)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
There are no differently abled workers in the Company.
5.
Other than permanent (G)
6.
Total differently abled workers (F + G)
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
66
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
21.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women:
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
6 *
1
16.67%
Key Management Personnel
3 #
0
0
	
* Including 4 Independent Directors.
	
# KMP includes CEO, CFO & CS
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (in percent):
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
62.96%
57.14%
6.76%
21%
1.97%
3.21%
25%
2.13%
1.10%
Permanent Workers
0
50% 
0 
0 
0
0
0
0
0
V. HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (INCLUDING JOINT VENTURES)
23.	 (a)	 Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the holding / 
subsidiary / associate 
companies 
/ 
joint 
ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares held 
by listed entity
Does the entity indicated at 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
Not Applicable
VI. CSR DETAILS
24.	 (i) 	 Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: Yes
(ii)	 Turnover - Rs. 153.23 Crores
(iii)	 Net worth - Rs. 248.38 Crores
VII. TRANSPARENCY AND DISCLOSURES COMPLIANCES
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from whom 
complaint is received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place 
(Yes/No)
(If Yes, then provide 
web-link for grievance 
redress policy)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of
the year
Remarks
Communities
No
NIL 
NIL 
NA
NIL 
NIL 
NA
Investors (other than 
shareholders)
NA
NIL 
NIL 
NA
NIL 
NIL 
NA
Shareholders
No 
11
NIL 
NA
9
NIL 
NA
Employees and 
workers
No
NIL 
NIL 
NA
NIL 
NIL 
NA
Customers
No
NIL 
NIL 
NA
NIL 
NIL 
NA
Value Chain Partners
No
NIL 
NIL 
NA
NIL 
NIL 
NA
67
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
Communities: There is no formal centralised grievance portal, grievances from the community are addressed through our 
CSR implementation partners and agencies, as outlined under Principle 8.
Shareholders: Complaints received from shareholders are promptly attended by the Registrar & Transfer Agent (RTA) 
and the Company's Secretarial Team. The Stakeholder Relationship Committee of the Board monitors unresolved grievances 
and ensures timely redressal in accordance with regulatory timelines. For investor service-related concerns, shareholders 
can reach out through the contact information provided on the Investor Relations page of the Company’s website: 
https://www.gtbl.in/investors/investor-contacts/
Employees and Workers: The Company has a formal grievance redressal system managed by the Human Resources (HR) 
Department. Employees and workers can submit their concerns via email or suggestion boxes available at office and plant 
locations. Additionally, the Company has implemented a robust Whistle Blower Policy and Vigil Mechanism, which enables 
employees to report concerns related to unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud, or violation of the Company’s 
Code of Conduct without fear of retaliation. The Whistle Blower Policy is accessible at: https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/
uploads/2025/07/GTBL-Vigil-Mechanism-or-Whistle-Blower-Policy.pdf
Customers: Customer Complaints are not routed through a dedicated portal, however, there complaints and feedback are 
addressed through established mechanisms, including a designated email (info@themismedicare.com), as detailed in 
Principle 9.
Value Chain Partners: Currently, the Company does not have a formal grievance mechanism for value chain partners; 
however, their concerns are addressed internally by procurement department
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that 
present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk 
along-with its financial implications
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
1
Regulatory 
Compliance
Risk
The pharmaceutical industry 
is 
highly 
regulated. 
Non- 
compliance 
can 
result 
in 
reputational 
damage 
and 
financial losses.
Regulatory 
compliance 
is 
overseen by:
Monitoring and managing all 
the compliance requirements 
through a maker and checker 
approach.
Implementing 
Standard 
Operating Procedures (SOPs) 
and 
protocols 
for 
each 
compliance requirement.
Regular review by the quality 
assurance team in collaboration 
with cross- functional teams 
every four months.
Engaging expert consultants 
for internal audits.
Negative
2
Employee 
Recruitment, 
Development & 
Retention
Opportunity Businesses 
face 
intense 
Competition in recruiting and 
retaining staff. The industry 
relies on highly
Not Applicable
Positive
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
68
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
3 
 Financial and 
Investment Risk 
due to ESG non-
compliance
Risk
Increasing expectations from 
stakeholders, 
investors 
and 
regulators on ESG performance 
can impact access to capital 
and 
investor 
confidence 
if 
ESG disclosures are weak or 
inconsistent.
Strengthen 
internal 
ESG 
governance, 
improve 
ESG 
data tracking and disclosure 
processes 
and 
ensure 
alignment 
with 
applicable 
frameworks like BRSR and GRI.
 Negative
4
Community 
relations due to 
environmental or 
social concerns
Risk
Industrial operations located 
near residential zones may 
attract scrutiny or resistance 
from 
local 
communities 
if 
environmental impacts (e.g., 
emissions, 
waste) 
are 
not 
adequately addressed.
Engage 
proactively 
with 
local 
stakeholders, 
conduct 
regular environmental impact 
assessments and invest in CSR 
and community development 
initiatives.
Negative
5
Affordability and 
Pricing
Opportunity Supplying 
APIs 
to 
Pharmaceutical 
companies 
plays a crucial role in enhancing 
accessibility and affordability 
of medications for patients. 
This is particularly notable in 
numerous low- and middle-
income countries where access 
to medicines is significantly 
improved.
The 
Company 
implements 
pricing strategies that balances 
profitability with affordability.
Not Applicable
Positive
6
Access to
Medicines
Opportunity Product pricing strategies that
consider the diverse economic 
conditions 
and 
healthcare 
requirements. 
Initiatives 
aimed at enhancing access 
to medications can lead to 
growth prospects, innovation 
and the formation of distinctive 
partnerships 
ultimately 
boosting shareholder value.
Not Applicable
Positive
69
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
7
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety
Risk
Providing for a safe work 
environment brings about high 
levels of employee satisfaction 
and ensures that they can 
achieve their highest potential. 
Ineffective 
management 
of 
health and safety practices 
can lead to a high number of 
safety related incidents. An 
unsafe workplace can cause 
distress 
and 
has 
potential 
reputational & revenue loss for 
the organization
Regular training is given to all 
site teams to mitigate unsafe 
acts and report on unsafe 
incidents. 
Employees 
are 
encouraged 
to report on near misses and 
potential near misses to avoid 
any future incidents. Industrial 
hygiene & personnel safety 
standards are maintained as 
per global best practices to 
keep the workplace safe.
Negative
8
Data Integrity 
and Cyber 
Security
Risk
Integrity of data is paramount 
for 
conducting 
safe 
and 
effective 
clinical 
trials, 
developing reliable medications 
and maintaining patient safety.
Breaches in data integrity could 
erode trust in products and 
compromise patient well-being.
Cybersecurity 
breaches 
can 
disrupt 
critical 
processes, 
leading 
to 
delays, 
lost 
productivity 
and 
increased 
costs.
Data integrity and security 
are central to our Information 
Security Management System 
(ISMS).
Implemented 
comprehensive 
policies and guidelines that 
govern data-handling practices 
across the organization. Strong 
IT management & monitoring 
system, anti-virous, fire walls to 
prevent any data integrity and 
cyber security breaches.
Training 
and 
awareness 
sessions are conducted for 
the employees to make them 
conversant 
with 
the 
latest 
trends in data integrity and 
cyber security.
Meet 
all 
data 
privacy 
compliance requirements and 
our Disaster Recovery Plan 
safeguards 
data 
security, 
availability and integrity in the 
event of disruptions or natural 
disasters.
Negative
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
70
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
 SECTION B:  MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES:
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the 
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1. 	
a. 	
Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle 
and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
b. 	
Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
c. 	
Web Link of the Policies, if available
The above mentioned applicable policies are available on 
website of the Company. https://www.gtbl.in/investors/
policies/
Sr. 
No.
Name of policy
Link to Policy
Which 
Principles 
each policies 
goes into
1
Policy for determining 
Material Subsidiaries
https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/Policy-for-
determining-Material-Subsidiary.pdf 
P1
2
Dividend Distribution Policy
https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Dividend-
Distribution-Policy_GTBL_-Final.pdf 
P1
3
CSR Policy
https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/CSR-Policy_
revised.pdf
P4, P8
4
Code of Conduct- Insider 
Trading
https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Policy_UPSI_
GTBL_14.02.2025.pdf
P1
5
Business Code of Conduct
https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/CODE-OF-
CONDUCT-GTBL.pdf
P1, P3
6
Related Party Transaction 
Policy
https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/RPT-Policy_
GTBL_14.02.2025.pdf
P1
7
Policy for Determination 
of materiality of events or 
information
https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Policy-for-
Determination-of-Materiality-of-Events-or-Information-for-Disclosure-to-
the-Stock-Exchanges.pdf
P1
8
Policy for preservation of 
documents
https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Archival-Policy-
GTBL.pdf 
P1, P9
9
Vigil Mechanism / 
Whistleblower Policy
https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/GTBL-Vigil-
Mechanism-or-Whistle-Blower-Policy.pdf
P1
10
Code of Conduct for Fair 
Disclosure of Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information
https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Policy_UPSI_
GTBL_14.02.2025.pdf
P1
Several other Company policies that align with the remaining principles are available on the intranet
2. 	
Whether the entity has translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes / No)
Yes, Company has translated the policies into procedures and 
practices wherever applicable.
3. 	
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain 
partners? (Yes/No)
No
4. 	
Name of the national and international codes/certifications/
labels/ standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, 
Fairtrade,  Rainforest  Alliance,  Trustea)  standards  (e.g.  SA
8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped 
to each principle.
All our manufacturing sites are adhering to applicable 
standards and has a certification from Food and Drug 
Administration Authority.
71
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
5. 	
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity 
with defined timelines, if any.
None
6. 	
Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, 
goals and targets along-with reasons in case the same are 
not met.
Not Applicable
Governance, leadership and oversight
Statement by Director responsible for the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, highlighting ESG related challenges, 
targets and achievements
The Company acknowledges the growing impact of climate change and recognizes its role in addressing environmental 
and social challenges within the pharmaceutical industry. As a responsible corporate entity, we are committed to building a 
sustainable and resilient future through proactive Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices.
Our ESG strategy is embedded in our core operations and continues to evolve in response to global sustainability imperatives 
and stakeholder expectations. We have prioritized initiatives such as effective plastic waste management, improving energy 
efficiency across our facilities, increasing the share of renewable energy in our consumption mix and implementing inclusive 
community development programs that promote health, education and well-being.
We understand that long-term ESG performance is driven by continuous engagement, innovation and accountability. 
Transparency remains a cornerstone of our approach, we actively communicate our ESG-related challenges, define clear and 
measurable sustainability targets and regularly report on our progress and achievements.
By integrating ESG principles into our business strategy, we aim to create lasting value for our stakeholders, contribute 
meaningfully to the global sustainability agenda and ensure the well-being of both current and future generations.
8. 	
Details	
of	
the	
highest	
authority	
responsible	
for implementation and oversight of the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Policy(ies).
Dr. Dinesh S Patel, Chairman
Dr. Sachin D Patel, Director
9. 	
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ 
Director responsible for decision making on sustainability 
related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
No. Sustainability aspects are addressed through the existing 
Risk Management Committee, Stakeholder Relationship 
Committee 
and 
CSR 
Committee. 
These 
committees 
collectively contribute to overseeing relevant environmental, 
social and governance matters
10. 	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken 
by Director / Committee of the Board / 
Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually / Half yearly / 
Quarterly / Any other – please specify)
P 1 P 2 P 3 P 4 P 5 P 6 P 7 P 8 P 9 P 1 P 2 P 3 P 4 P 5 P 6 P 7 P 8 P 9
Performance 
against 
above 
policies and follow up action
The policies of the Company are reviewed periodically / on a need basis by department 
heads / Directors / Board committees / Board members, wherever applicable.
Compliance 
with 
statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles and, rectification of any 
non-compliances
Status of compliance with all applicable statutory requirements is reviewed by the Board 
on a quarterly basis.
11. 	 Has 
the 
entity 
carried 
out 
independent 
assessment/ 
evaluation of the working of its 
policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name of 
the agency.
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
No. The Company internally reviews the working of the above-mentioned policies 
wherever applicable.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
72
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its business 
(Yes/No)
Not Applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate and 
implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
 SECTION C:  PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is designed to assist organizations in showcasing their efforts to incorporate the Principles and Core Elements 
into their key processes and decisions. The requested information is divided into "Essential" and "Leadership" categories. While 
entities required to submit this report are expected to disclose the essential indicators, organizations aiming to advance to a 
higher level of social, environmental and ethical responsibility may voluntarily disclose the leadership indicators.
  PRINCIPLE 1:     Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent 
and Accountable.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Segment
Total number of 
training and awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under the training 
and its impact
% of persons in respective 
category covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of 
Directors
3
Familiarization programme
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
3
Familiarization programme
100%
Employees 
other than 
Board of 
Directors and 
KMPs
220
Various trainings given by the Company are 
categorised under these heads:
-	 Technical and Professional Skills Training
-	 Team Building and Soft Skills
-	 POSH Training
-	 Industry-Specific Knowledge and Trends
-	 Training on Artificial Intelligence Regulatory 
and Compliance Training
-	 HR Policies
100%
Workers
01
Various trainings given by the Company are 
categorised under these heads:
-	Technical and Process-Specific Training
-	Safety and Emergency Response Training
-	Regulatory Compliance and Quality Assurance
-	Employee Well-being and Workplace Policies 
like personal hygiene and POSH training.
100%
73
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
2.	
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity 
or by Directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year (basis the 
materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as 
disclosed on the entity’s website)
The Company, its Directors and/or KMPs have not been subjected to any thresholds of the materiality policy to pay any fines, 
penalties, punishments, awards, compounding fees, or settlement amounts in the financial year.
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory / enforcement 
agencies / judicial institutions
Amount 
(in INR)
Brief of 
the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Penalty/Fine
NIL 
Settlement
Compounding Fee
Non-Monetary
Imprisonment
NIL 
Punishment
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-
monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory / enforcement agencies / judicial institutions
NIL 
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web-
link to the policy
Yes, the entity has adopted a Business Code of Conduct and Ethics, which outlines its commitment to ethical behavior, 
integrity and compliance with legal and regulatory standards. While there is currently no standalone anti-corruption or 
anti-bribery policy, the existing Code serves as a foundational framework promoting responsible conduct across various 
domains, including corruption prevention.
The Code applies to all Directors and all employees including senior management, department heads and factory 
in-charges. It explicitly addresses important ethical principles such as:
•	
Compliance with laws and regulations, both domestic and international;
•	
Conflict of interest avoidance, requiring personnel to resolve any potential conflicts in the best interest of the Company;
•	
Prohibition on acceptance of gifts that could influence business judgment or create a perception of bias;
•	
Protection of Company property, ensuring responsible use of resources and safeguarding of confidential information;
•	
Access to the Audit Committee, allowing employees to raise concerns, including on ethical matters, directly with 
independent members;
•	
Annual affirmation of compliance from senior leadership, reinforcing accountability.
Although a standalone anti-bribery/anti-corruption policy has not yet been adopted, the Company is actively reviewing its 
governance framework to evaluate the implementation of a more comprehensive and focused policy in this area.
The Business Code of Conduct and Ethics is publicly available for reference at: https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/
uploads/2015/08/CODE-OF-CONDUCT-GTBL.pdf 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
74
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement 
agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directors
No disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency for 
the charges of bribery/ corruption
KMPs
Employees
Workers
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest :
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues 
of conflict of interest of the Directors
No complaints were received with regard to conflict of interest in 
any of the reporting year
Number of complaints received in relation to issues 
of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties/ action taken by regulators/ 
law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest. 
	
During the reporting period, there were no instances of fines, penalties, or any regulatory, judicial, or law enforcement actions 
related to corruption or conflicts of interest. Accordingly, no corrective actions were required or are currently underway in this 
regard. The Company remains committed to upholding ethical standards and proactively mitigating such risks through its 
governance framework and Code of Conduct.
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables (Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables
218.21
98.60
9.	
Open-ness of Business
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers and related parties along-with loans 
and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Concentration 
of Purchases
a. 	
Purchases from Trading houses as % of total purchases
90% 
85%
b. 	
Number of trading houses where purchases and made 
from
530
380
c. 	
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses
70%
65%
Concentration 
of Sales
a. 	
Sales to dealers/distributors as % of total sales
-
-
b. 	
Number of dealers/distributors to whom sales are made
-
-
c. 	
Sales to top 10 dealers/distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers/ distributors
-
-
Share of RPTs 
in
a. 	
Purchases 
(Purchases 
with 
related 
parties/Total 
Purchases)
5.74%
NIL
b. 	
Sales (Sales to related parties/Total Sales)
0.06%
0.96%
c. 	
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related 
parties/Total loans & advances)
-
-
d. 	
Investments 
(Investments 
in 
related 
parties/Total 
Investments made)
NIL
NIL
75
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topic/principles covered 
under the training
% age of value chain partners covered 
(by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
NIL 
NIL 
NIL 
The Company remains committed to fostering responsible business practices across its value chain and has outlined 
structured initiatives for the upcoming period to build awareness around the Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Principles. These planned engagements aim to strengthen ESG alignment and promote shared accountability. Although 
no standalone awareness programmes were conducted during the reporting year, the Company continues to integrate key 
sustainability expectations into its regular interactions with value chain partners
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No). 
If Yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes, the Company has a comprehensive Code of Conduct (the "Code") that sets forth both legal and ethical standards for 
Directors, Senior Management and employees. The Code is designed to uphold integrity, promote ethical behavior and 
prevent misconduct. It covers key areas, including:
•	
Managing Conflict of interest
•	
Compliance with Law
•	
Treatment to other Employees
•	
Health and Safety Protection
•	
Protection of Company’s property
•	
Insider Trading
•	
Accepting Gifts
	
These principles serve as a framework to ensure that all stakeholders act with honesty, transparency and respect, thereby 
safeguarding the Company’s reputation and fostering a culture of compliance.
  PRINCIPLE 2:     Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS:
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and 
social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
2024-25
2023-24
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D
100%
100%
Investment 
in 
Specific 
technologies 
to 
improve 
the 
environmental and social impacts of products and process.
Capex
33.16%
32.10%
2.	
a. 	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
The Company is committed to responsible sourcing and currently follows a robust supplier screening process to ensure 
ethical and compliant practices across its value chain. While a standalone formal procedure for sustainable sourcing is 
yet to be instituted, efforts are underway to develop and strengthen a structured framework as part of the Company’s 
broader sustainability roadmap. This approach reflects the Company’s ongoing progress toward aligning procurement 
practices with environmental and social sustainability goals.
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
The percentage of inputs sourced sustainably is not tracked as of now, the Company recognizes the importance of 
sustainable sourcing. As part of its ongoing efforts, the Company will work towards measuring and reporting on the 
sustainability of its sourcing practices and aims to disclose this percentage in the coming years.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
76
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for 
(a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
a) 	
Plastics (including packaging): The Company complies with the Plastic Waste Management Rules issued by the Central 
Pollution Control Board (CPCB) or State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), ensuring responsible disposal and minimization 
of plastic waste, including packaging materials.
b) 	 E-waste: The Company follows a defined process for the safe disposal of electronic waste (e-waste) by coordinating 
with the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) and authorized recyclers in accordance with applicable regulations.
c) 	
Hazardous Waste: The Company has implemented a structured mechanism for the safe handling, storage and disposal 
of hazardous waste. This is carried out in alignment with regulatory guidelines and in coordination with the SPCB and 
authorized agencies, ensuring compliance with environmental norms.
d) 	
Other Waste: The Company has procedures in place for the appropriate segregation, storage and disposal of other 
types of non-hazardous waste through authorized channels and in compliance with SPCB directives.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, 
provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Yes, Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities and the waste collection plan is in line with 
the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Board.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) 
or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
NIC 
Code
Name of Product/ 
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
Contributed
Boundary for 
which the Life 
Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results communicated in public 
domain (Yes/No) If yes, provide 
the web-link.
The Company has not conducted Life Cycle Perspective (LCP) / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products or services. 
Same shall be assessed in the upcoming years and taken up accordingly.
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your 
products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly 
describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same. N/A
Name of Product/ Service
Description of the risk/ concern
Action Taken
Not Applicable
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) 
or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Solvent recovered and recycled
91.80%
93.45%
As a pharmaceutical products manufacturer, we are unable to incorporate reused or recycled input materials into our 
production processes. This limitation is dictated by several factors, including the nature of the products, their criticality 
concerning patients' health and safety, compliance with relevant regulations and adherence to clinical trial protocols. Given 
these considerations, there is no possibility of reusing or recycling any input materials directly associated with our products.
77
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled and safely 
disposed, as per the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
0
0
0
0
0
0
E-waste
0
0
0
0
0
0
Hazardous waste
0
0
0
0
0
0
Other waste (Paper) (Non-Hazardous waste)
0
0
0
0
0
0
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials(as percentage of products sold) for each product category
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products 
sold) for each product category
Not Applicable
  PRINCIPLE 3:     Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B /A) Number 
(C)
% (C /A) Number 
(D)
% (D /A) Number 
(E)
% (E /A) Number 
(F)
% (F 
/A)
Permanent employees
Male
199
108
54.27%
199
100% 
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
21
12
57.14%
21
100%
21
100%
-
-
-
-
Total
220
120
54.55%
220
100%
21
9.55%
-
-
-
-
Other than Permanent employees
Male
NIL
Female
Total
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of workers covered by
Total 
(A)
Health insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B /A) Number 
(C)
% (C /A) Number 
(D)
% (D 
/A)
Number 
(E)
% (E /A) Number 
(F)
% (F /A)
Permanent workers
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
1
1
100%
1
100%
1
100%
-
-
-
-
Total
1
1
100%
1
100%
1
100%
-
-
-
-
Other than Permanent workers
Male
145
126
100%
145
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
6
6
100%
6
100%
6
100%
-
-
-
-
Total
151
132
100%
151
100%
6
3.97%
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
78
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than permanent) 
in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the 
Company
0.011%
0.006%
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
96.88%
100%
Yes
85%
100%
Yes
Gratuity
98.66%
100%
Yes
100%
100%
Yes
ESI
53.57%
100%
Yes
62%
100%
Yes
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of 
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard
	
The Company is committed to fostering an inclusive and accessible workplace in line with the principles of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. While there are currently no employees or workers with disabilities on the rolls, the 
Company ensures that its infrastructure and facilities are adaptable to support accessibility needs. Proactive measures will 
be undertaken to make necessary accommodations as and when differently-abled individuals are engaged in the workforce, 
in order to create an enabling and barrier-free environment.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
If so, provide a web-link to the policy.
	
The Company does not have a Standalone Equal Opportunity Policy. However, the principles of equal opportunity, fairness 
and non-discrimination are deeply embedded within the Company’s Business Code of Conduct and Ethics. The Code 
outlines the Company’s expectation for all employees to uphold a culture of respect, dignity and equitable treatment, 
irrespective of gender, caste, religion, disability, or any other characteristic. It reflects the Company’s belief in providing a 
work environment that fosters inclusion, merit-based growth and a respectful workplace for all. These guiding principles 
form the foundation of the Company’s people practices and reinforce its commitment to diversity and inclusivity across all 
levels of operations. The Business Code of Conduct and Ethics can be accessed at the following link: https://www.gtbl.in/
wp-content/uploads/2015/08/CODE-OF-CONDUCT-GTBL.pdf
	
The Company is committed to upholding the principles of equality, fairness and inclusivity across all levels of its operations. 
While a standalone Equal Opportunity Policy specifically aligned with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 has 
not yet been notified, the Company’s approach to non-discrimination and fair treatment is embedded within its Business 
Code of Conduct and Ethics.
	
As stated in Clause 5 of the Code, all employees and specified personnel are expected to treat others with respect and dignity, 
regardless of their status, religion, age, gender, or disability. The Code further emphasizes that harassment in any form is not 
tolerated and that all individuals must recognize and uphold the value of people within the organization. These foundational 
principles reflect the Company’s alignment with the intent of the Act, even in the absence of a separate documented policy.
	
The Company is committed to continuously enhancing its internal policies and practices and is currently evaluating the formal 
adoption of a comprehensive Equal Opportunity Policy in line with applicable statutory provisions to further strengthen its 
inclusive culture.
79
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
	
The Business Code of Conduct and Ethics is publicly accessible at: https://www.gtbl.in/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/
CODE-OF-CONDUCT-GTBL.pdf 
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
	
While the Company grants Maternity leave, it does not have a policy of paternal leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
No parental leave was taken during the reporting year.
Female
Total
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker? If 
yes, give details of the mechanism in brief
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Yes, the Company has a structured grievance redressal mechanism applicable 
to all categories of employees and workers, including permanent, temporary and 
contractual personnel. This mechanism is designed to ensure that concerns are 
addressed promptly, fairly and in a confidential manner.
The Human Resources (HR) department serves as the primary point of contact for 
employees and workers to report any workplace-related grievances, including those 
related to behavior, working conditions, compensation, or interpersonal issues. 
Concerns can be raised either in person or through the official grievance email ID 
[insert email ID].
Additionally, the Company has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy that allows 
employees and workers to report serious concerns such as unethical practices, 
suspected fraud, or violations of the Company’s Code of Conduct. The policy 
ensures that all such disclosures are treated confidentially and that individuals 
raising concerns are protected against any form of retaliation.
These mechanisms are periodically reviewed to ensure their effectiveness and 
alignment with best practices, reflecting the Company’s commitment to maintaining 
a transparent, safe and respectful work environment for all.
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (B)
% 
(B / A)
Total employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (D)
% 
(D / C)
Total Permanent Employees
None of our employees or workers are members of any associations or unions. However, 
the Company does not restrict or prohibit the formation of associations or unions by its 
employees and workers.
Male
Female
Total Permanent Workers
Male
Female
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
80
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
No. (E)
% (E / D)
No. (F)
% (F / D)
Employees
Male
199
199
100%
-
-
145
145
100%
-
-
Female
21
21
100%
-
-
12
12
100%
-
-
Total
220
220
100%
-
-
157
157
100%
-
-
Workers
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
1
1
100%
-
-
2
2
100%
-
-
Total
1
1
100%
-
-
2
2
100%
-
-
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Male
199
199
100%
145
145
100%
Female
21
21
100%
12
12
100%
Total
220
220
100%
157
157
100%
Workers
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
1
1
100%
2
2
100%
Total
1
1
100%
2
2
100%
10.	 Health and safety management system:
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If 
yes, the coverage such system?
	
Yes, an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented in our factory. In case of any 
emergency, we have developed first aid policy in our factory by which the person can contact nearest first aider for 
treatment and then if required victim will be sent to the hospital for further treatment. Also we appoint a part time 
medical officer who visit the factory on weekly bases.	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non- routine basis by 
the entity?
	
The Company conducts periodic safety audits to identify work-related hazards and assess risks. These audits are part 
of our commitment to maintaining a safe working environment and are designed to identify potential hazards and 
evaluate the effectiveness of our safety measures on both routine and non-routine bases.
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such 
risks. (Y/N). 
	
Yes, the Company has established processes that enable employees and workers to report work-related hazards or 
unsafe conditions without hesitation. Any potential risks, near-miss incidents, or injuries can be reported directly to the 
respective departmental heads. A dedicated safety team is in place to investigate such incidents through root cause 
analysis and to implement corrective and preventive measures to mitigate future occurrences.
81
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
	
In case of emergencies, the Company conducts regular mock drills to ensure preparedness and to validate the 
effectiveness of mitigation systems in place. Proactive steps are also taken to ensure prompt access to medical 
support, including the availability of ambulances and essential antidotes, reinforcing the Company’s commitment to 
workplace safety and employee well-being.
d.	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
	
At present, the Company does not provide formal non-occupational medical and healthcare services to its employees 
and workers. However, the Company remains committed to employee well-being and continues to explore opportunities 
to enhance its health-related support systems beyond occupational requirements, in alignment with evolving workforce 
needs and industry practices.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-
person hours worked)
Employees
NIL 
NIL 
Workers
NIL 
NIL 
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
NIL 
NIL 
Workers
NIL 
NIL 
No. of fatalities
Employees
NIL 
NIL 
Workers
NIL 
NIL 
High consequence work-related injury or ill- health (excluding 
fatalities)
Employees
NIL 
NIL 
Workers
NIL 
NIL 
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
	
The Company has implemented an Occupational Health and Safety Management System to ensure a safe and healthy 
work environment. Periodic safety audits are conducted to identify workplace hazards and assess risks. Recommendations 
from these audits are reviewed and implemented to strengthen safety practices. Employees and workers are encouraged 
to report unsafe conditions or incidents, which are investigated by a dedicated safety team through root cause analysis, 
followed by corrective and preventive actions. Regular emergency mock drills are conducted to ensure preparedness and 
medical support, including ambulance and essential antidotes, is available on-site. While non-occupational healthcare 
services are not currently offered, the Company remains committed to enhancing employee well-being.
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
No complaints were received by the employees and workers in either of the reporting year
Health & Safety
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity 
or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant 
risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
Not applicable since there were no significant safety related incidents.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
82
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees (Y/N) (B) 
Workers (Y/N).
	
Yes, the Company provides life insurance and compensatory coverage to both employees and workers. All eligible workers 
and staff are covered under the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) scheme and a Group Personal Accident 
(GPA) policy. These provisions ensure financial support to the dependents in the unfortunate event of death, in accordance 
with applicable statutory requirements and internal policies.
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the 
value chain partners.
	
The Company obtains proof and compliance reports from them to confirm that statutory dues and other obligations have 
been deducted and deposited appropriately. By actively monitoring and verifying compliance through these reports, the 
Company ensures that all necessary statutory requirements are met by its value chain partners.
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill- health / fatalities 
(as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or 
whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated 
and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2024-25 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24 
(Previous Financial Year)
FY 2024-25 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24 
(Previous Financial Year)
Employees
None of the employees / workers suffered any high consequence work- related injury / ill-health / fatalities. 
Hence, this is not applicable.
Workers
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
Yes, the Company provides transition assistance to support employees in managing career endings due to retirement or 
separation. This includes the opportunity for eligible individuals to be re-engaged as consultants, based on organizational 
needs and the individual's expertise. Such initiatives are aimed at facilitating continued employability while ensuring a 
smooth and respectful transition from active employment.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were 
assessed
Health and safety practices
The value chain partners are internally assessed and continuously monitored.
Working Conditions
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments 
of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners. 
	
Not applicable.
  PRINCIPLE 4:     Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
The Company identifies its key stakeholder groups through a structured process that considers the degree of influence and 
mutual dependence between the stakeholders and the Company. Stakeholders are recognized as those individuals, groups, 
or institutions that either impact or are impacted by the Company’s operations, decisions and long-term performance. This 
includes a wide range of entities such as customers, employees, suppliers, regulators, business partners, investors and the 
local communities in which the Company operates.
83
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
	
The process of stakeholder identification is guided by the nature and frequency of interactions, regulatory and compliance 
obligations, strategic business objectives and the potential for shared value creation. The Company also factors in 
feedback received through various formal and informal engagement channels including meetings, audits, consultations and 
community interactions. These ongoing engagements help the Company remain responsive to the needs and expectations 
of its stakeholders while aligning business practices with broader social and environmental responsibilities.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalised 
(Yes/No)
Channels of Communication
Frequency of 
Engagement
Purpose and Scope of Engagement
Customers
No
Meetings
Frequent and 
need-based
To understand customer expectations, 
share product updates and stay informed 
about trends in the pharmaceutical 
sector.
Government 
/ Regulatory 
Authorities
No
Meetings, official correspondence 
and regulatory platforms
Need-based
To ensure timely compliance, obtain 
necessary permissions and stay updated 
on relevant policy or regulatory changes.
Employees
No
Internal 
communications, 
departmental 
meetings, 
HR 
interactions and notice boards
Ongoing and 
need-based
To 
communicate 
Company 
developments, provide updates and 
address 
employee 
feedback 
and 
workplace concerns.
Suppliers & 
Vendors
No
Emails, 
review 
meetings 
and 
purchase coordination
Frequent and 
need-based
To 
align 
on 
supply 
schedules, 
quality expectations and compliance 
requirements across procurement and 
delivery processes.
Investors & 
Funders
No
Emails, Company website, investor 
presentations, 
annual 
reports, 
stock exchange disclosures
Quarterly and 
need-based
To communicate financial performance, 
material developments and address 
investor queries and expectations.
Local 
Communities
Yes
Direct engagement or through CSR 
implementation partners
Frequent and 
project-based
To 
support 
inclusive 
development 
through high-impact CSR initiatives 
and maintain constructive community 
relations.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental and social topics 
or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
The Senior Management of the Company engage in consultations with various stakeholders as needed, covering economic, 
environmental and social topics. These consultations are conducted to gather insights, address concerns and seek input 
from stakeholders on matters relevant to the Company's operations and impact.
	
Following these consultations, the findings and outcomes are shared with the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis 
during Board Meetings. This ensures that the Board is regularly updated on the perspectives and feedback received from 
stakeholders, allowing for informed decision-making and alignment with stakeholder interests and expectations.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental and social 
topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were 
incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
	
Yes. Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited believes in engaging with stakeholders to understand their concerns and feedback in 
terms of material topics pertaining to ESG parameters for the Company.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
84
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder groups.
	
Yes, Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited supports the Government’s endeavour toward the CSR Rules and implements various 
initiatives for the upliftment and betterment of disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised segments of society. We believe 
in providing accessible and affordable healthcare/education through various CSR initiatives.
  PRINCIPLE 5:     Businesses should respect and promote human rights
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the 
following format: 
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Permanent
21
16
76%
12
9
75%
Other than permanent Employees
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Employees
21
16
76%
12
9
75%
Workers
Permanent
1
1
100%
2
2
100%
Other than permanent
0
0
0%
0
0
0
Total Workers
1
1
100%
2
2
100%
	
The Company has conducted training on the Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH), which has currently been provided to 
female employees and workers.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A) No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D) No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Permanent
Male
199
101
50.75%
98
49.25%
145
35
24%
110
76%
Female
21
12
57.14%
9
42.86%
12
5
42%
7
58%
Other than Permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Workers
Permanent
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
1
1
100%
0
0
2
2
100%
0
0
Other than Permanent
Male
145
115
79.31%
0
0
122
102
83.60%
20
16.40%
Female
6
6
100%
0
0
6
6
100%
0
0
85
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format
a.	
Median remuneration/wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of respective 
category
Number
Median remuneration/
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)
6
NIL 
-
-
Key Managerial Personnel*
4
73325
-
-
Employees other than BoD and KMP
199
18460
21
19299
Workers
0
0
01
12012
	
*Please note that in KMPs remuneration, remuneration was paid to the CEO, Company Secretary and two Chief Financial 
Officers due to a change in the CFO position during the year. The first Chief Financial Officer served until 31st December 2024 
and retired on the same date. A new Chief Financial Officer took charge effective from 1st January 2025.
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
6.61
5.30
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. HR team responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues. Additionally, there is a POSH (Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment) committee in place to handle related matters.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
The Company has established comprehensive internal mechanisms to address grievances related to human rights issues. It 
operates an open-door policy, allowing employees and workers to directly present their concerns to their Head of Department 
or the HR Head. This approach ensures that grievances are promptly communicated and addressed at the management 
level.
	
For more formal or sensitive issues, the Whistle Blower Policy provides a confidential channel for reporting concerns, including 
human rights violations. Additionally, the Prohibition of Sexual Harassment at Workplace policy is in place to address any 
instances of sexual harassment, reinforcing Company’s commitment to a safe and respectful work environment. These 
mechanisms collectively ensure that human rights grievances are managed with the utmost seriousness and integrity.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
 There were no complaints received in any of the reporting period.
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Wages
Other human rights related issues
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
86
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, 
in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
There were no complaints received in 
any of the reporting period.
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
Complaints on POSH upheld
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
The Company maintains a strong zero-tolerance stance against any form of retaliation, harassment, or adverse consequences 
towards individuals who report concerns, including those related to discrimination or harassment. This commitment is clearly 
articulated in its Whistle Blower Policy and reinforced through its Business Code of Conduct and Ethics.
	
Employees, workers and stakeholders are encouraged to report grievances in good faith, without fear of retaliation. The 
Whistle Blower Policy provides for a confidential and secure reporting channel and explicitly protects whistle-blowers from any 
detrimental treatment. It outlines clear procedures for inquiry and mandates that no individual who raises a concern whether 
anonymously or otherwise will be subject to retaliation, discrimination, or any form of disadvantage as a consequence.
	
Furthermore, the Company affirms that any act of retaliation or misconduct against a complainant will be treated as a 
serious violation of Company policy. Disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment, is taken against any 
individual found to be engaging in retaliatory behaviour, in accordance with the law and internal policies. These mechanisms 
collectively ensure that employees and stakeholders can raise issues in a safe, respectful and supportive environment.
	
In addition, the Company is compliant with the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH Act”). An Internal Committee (IC) has been constituted at plant location to 
address complaints of sexual harassment in a fair, timely and confidential manner. Awareness programs and  are conducted 
to sensitise employees on the prevention of sexual harassment and to encourage a respectful workplace culture.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts?
	
Yes, business agreements and contracts entered into by your Company with third parties include standard contract clauses 
for labour rights wherever applicable.
10.	 Assessments for the year.
Particulars
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or 
statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
100%
Forced/involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 10 above.
	
Since the Company is compliant, there was no corrective action suggested by any auditing / inspecting authority / official.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/ complaints.
	
Not applicable. During the financial year, the Company did not receive any grievances or complaints related to human 
rights principles and guidelines. As a result, there have been no modifications or introductions of new business processes 
specifically in response to such issues. The current processes and policies, including the Whistle Blower Policy and grievance 
redressal mechanisms, remain effective in maintaining and upholding human rights standards across the operations.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
	
Human rights due-diligence is conducted through internal audits in all our plants. These audits ensure that our operations 
adhere to human rights standards and practices, safeguarding the rights and well-being of all employees and workers.
87
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes. We are constantly working towards identifying the need of such visitors and proactively supporting on the same. We are 
also working on the overall accessibility of our office premises to meet the highest standards possible.
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners : 
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that 
were assessed
Sexual Harassment
The value chain partners were evaluated based on these criteria, However, the 
percentage is not ascertainable.
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
Wages
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above:
	
Not Applicable.
  PRINCIPLE 6:     Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
(In Gigajoules)
FY 2023-24
(In Gigajoules)
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
0
0
Total fuel consumption (B)
0
0
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
0
0
Total Energy consumption from renewable sources (A+B+C)
0
0
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
79977
75887
Total fuel consumption (E)
124470
117277
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
0
0
Total Energy consumption from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
204447
193164
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
204447
193164
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumption/ Revenue from Operations)
0.000133423
0.000110894
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.0029886730
0.002484031
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
1052.385855
965.3855765
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency.
	
There hasn't been an external review or analysis conducted to assess various aspects of our operations, performance, or 
compliance with standards or regulations.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
88
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and 
Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been 
achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any
	
Our facilities at Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited are not included within the ambit of the Perform, Achieve and Trade (PAT) 
Scheme initiated by the Government of India. This means that our site is not subject to the regulations and requirements set 
forth by the PAT Scheme, allowing us flexibility in our operations while ensuring compliance with relevant energy efficiency 
and conservation standards.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in Kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
---
---
(ii) Groundwater
---
---
(iii) Third party water
---
---
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
---
---
(v) Others
185560 kl
(GIDC water supply)
185600 kl (GIDC 
water supply)
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
185560
185600
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
185560
185600
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / Revenue from operations)
0.000121097
0.00010655
Water Intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.002712577
0.00238676
Water intensity in terms of physical output
955.1654913
927.5825878
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency.
	
There hasn't been an external review or analysis conducted to assess various aspects of our operations, performance, or 
compliance with standards or regulations.
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) 	 To Surface water
---
---
- No treatment
---
---
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
---
---
(ii) 	 To Groundwater
---
---
- No treatment
---
---
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
---
---
(iii) 	 To Seawater
---
---
- No treatment
---
---
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
---
---
(iv) 	 Sent to third-parties
---
---
- No treatment - 
---
---
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment - Primary and 
Secondary treatment
---
---
(v) 	 Others
- No treatment
---
---
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment- Primary and 
Secondary treatment
46498 KL (to CETP) 51609 KL (to CETP)
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
46498 KL
51609 KL
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency.
89
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
	
There hasn't been an external review or analysis conducted to assess various aspects of our operations, performance, or 
compliance with standards or regulations. 
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
	
The Company has implemented a Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) plant, which is currently in the final stages of commissioning. 
However, a comprehensive Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs) are operational to ensure that wastewater is treated effectively 
and in compliance with applicable environmental norms.
	
The treatment process includes the following steps: 
 Initial oil and grease separation; 
 Chemical neutralization using hydrated lime, alum and polyelectrolyte; 
 Sludge separation and drying; 
 Biological treatment through aeration; 
 Final sedimentation to separate biomass.
	
The treated water is then discharged into the GIDC underground drainage system, in compliance with the prescribed 
inlet norms of the Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP). During the reporting year, our plant treated and discharged 
approximately 46498 KL of effluent to the CETP, where it undergoes further treatment prior to final discharge into the tidal 
zone of the Damanganga River.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
NOx
microgram / cubic meter
31.80
29.40
SOx
microgram / cubic meter
29.80
56.41
Particulate matter (PM)
microgram / cubic meter
111.80
92.06
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
-
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
-
Others – please specify
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency.
	
UniStar Environment and Research Labs Pvt. Ltd., Vapi
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
10365.42
9808.08
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
4717.06
4475.88
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of turnover 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue from 
operations)
0.000009843
0.00000820
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of turnover 
adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total Scope 
1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP)
0.000220481
0.00018369
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions intensity in terms of 
physical output
77.6366912
71.38767555
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) – 
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
90
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
	
There hasn't been an external review or analysis conducted to assess various aspects of our operations, performance, or 
compliance with standards or regulations. 
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details. 
	
The Company has actively pursued initiatives during the reporting year to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as part of 
its broader commitment to sustainability and environmental stewardship. One notable project involves a significant transition 
in lighting systems at of its manufacturing facilities. 
	
In recognition of the inefficiencies and environmental impact of Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs) which release 
approximately 80% of their energy as heat the Company has replaced them with Light Emitting Diode (LED) bulbs, known for 
their superior energy efficiency and reduced heat generation. As a result of this initiative most of the lighting systems at this 
facility have been converted to LED technology.
	
The shift to LED lighting not only minimizes electricity consumption but also contributes directly to lowering indirect GHG 
emissions associated with energy use, particularly when sourced from conventional, carbon-intensive grids. This step 
underscores the Company’s proactive approach to integrating environmentally responsible practices into its operations and 
reducing its overall carbon footprint.
	
Although this specific initiative was implemented in the manufacturing unit, it serves as a clear example of GTBL focus 
on operational sustainability and its commitment to progressively adopting measures that contribute to climate change 
mitigation. The Company continues to evaluate opportunities across its locations to further enhance energy efficiency and 
minimize environmental impacts in line with its sustainability goals.
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
3.011 MT (Carboy/
Liners)
2.797 MT (Carboy/
Liners)
E-waste (B)
0
0.085MT
Bio-medical waste (C)
0
0
Construction and demolition waste (D)
0
0
Battery waste (E)
0
0
Radioactive waste (F)
0
0
Other Hazardous waste - Used Oil, ETP Sludge, Expired Medicine and Process 
Residue. (G)
86.52 MT (Process 
residue), 92.33 MT 
(ETP sludge), 0.12 
MT (Used Oil),
96.92 MT (Process 
residue), 89.34 MT 
(ETP sludge), 0.15 
MT (Used Oil),
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. (Break-up by 
composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
4286.25 MT 
(Mycelium – Non-
Haz. waste)
4299.39 MT 
(Mycelium – Non-
Haz. waste)
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
4468
4489
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste generated / Revenue from 
operations)- Metric tonnes/Rupees
0.000002915834
0.000002577107
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.000065314683
0.000057727197
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
22.99891903
22.43490429
Waste intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in 
metric tonnes)
91
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Category of waste
(i) Recycled –Used Oil
-
-
(ii) Re-used
0.12 MT (Used Oil)- 
used as lubricant in 
machineries,
0.15 MT (Used Oil)- 
used as lubricant in 
machineries,
(iii) Other recovery operations
-
-
Total
0.12 MT
0.15 MT
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Incineration - Process waste
0
101.97 
(Process waste)
(ii) Landfilling - ETP sludge & Mycelium
5004.996
4262.404
(iii) Other disposal operations
2.928 
(Carboy/Liners)
82.29 
(Process waste)
2.394 
(Carboy/Liners)
0.085 
(E Waste)
Total
5090.214
4366.853
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency.
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
Company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 
manage such wastes.
	
At GTBL, waste management is guided by a balanced approach that integrates regulatory compliance, risk mitigation and 
environmental stewardship. Each manufacturing site follows a tailored waste management protocol, prioritizing the safe 
handling, storage and disposal of both hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
	
For hazardous waste, GTBL ensures that all storage, transportation and disposal activities strictly adhere to applicable 
state and central pollution control regulations. Designated storage areas are established for hazardous materials, equipped 
with secure containment, clear labeling and accurate inventory tracking to minimize the risk of accidental release. The 
Company engages only authorized waste management agencies for offsite treatment and disposal, maintaining all required 
documentation, such as manifests and regulatory records, in full compliance with statutory requirements.
	
In managing wastewater and effluents, GTBL applies a structured process for treatment and quality assurance prior to 
discharge or offsite transfer. These treatment systems are designed to meet the prescribed limits for parameters such as pH 
and total dissolved solids, in accordance with the norms set by local pollution control boards.
	
To reduce reliance on hazardous and toxic chemicals, the Company focuses on process improvements and material 
substitution wherever technically feasible. Operational teams regularly assess chemical inventories and evaluate safer 
alternatives to mitigate environmental and occupational health risks. Furthermore, awareness initiatives and periodic internal 
audits are conducted to support responsible chemical handling and reduce potential exposure during operations.
	
Although no major infrastructure upgrades or new waste management initiatives were undertaken during the reporting year, 
Themis Medicare Limited remains firmly committed to ongoing improvement. The Company continuously tracks regulatory 
developments and best practices within the industry and is dedicated to enhancing its waste management and chemical 
safety protocols as part of its broader environmental sustainability goals.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
92
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
11.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals 
/ clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
S. 
No.
Location of 
operations/offices
Type of 
operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval / clearance are being 
complied with? (Y/N) If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, 
if any.
The Company refrains from conducting its operations in environmentally fragile or ecologically sensitive regions. This strategic 
decision underscores the Company's commitment to responsible business practices and environmental stewardship, 
avoiding potential harm to delicate ecosystems. By deliberately choosing locations that are not ecologically sensitive, the 
Company aims to minimize its environmental impact and contribute to the preservation of biodiversity and natural habitats.
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year:
Name and brief 
details of project
EIA Notification 
No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain (Yes 
/ No)
Relevant Web link
Not Applicable, In accordance with the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change (MoEF) guidelines, the industry/
operations are exempt from the requirement to furnish environmental clearance or undergo an Environmental Impact 
Assessment (EIA).
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act and Environment protection act and 
rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non- compliances, in the following format:
Sr. 
No.
Specify the law / regulation 
/guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details of 
the non-compliance
Any fines /penalties / action taken by 
regulatory agencies such as pollution 
control boards or by courts
Corrective action 
taken, if any
The Company is compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres): For each facility / plant located in 
areas of water stress, provide the following information:
(i)	
Name of the area: Not Applicable
(ii)	 Nature of operations: Not Applicable
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) 	 Surface water
 -
-
(ii) 	 Groundwater
-
-
(iii) 	 Third party water
-
-
(iv) 	 Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v) 	 Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
-
-
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
-
-
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
-
-
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
93
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
(i) 	 Into Surface water
- 
-
- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
 
 
(ii) 	 Into Groundwater
-
-
- No treatment
 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
 
 
(iii) 	 Into Seawater
 -
 -
- No treatment
 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
 
 
(iv) 	 Sent to third-parties
 -
-
- No treatment
 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
 
 
(v) 	 Others
-
-
- No treatment
 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment- Primary and 
Secondary treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres) 
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
-
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
-
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency.
	
There hasn't been an external review or analysis conducted to assess various aspects of our operations, performance, or 
compliance with standards or regulations.
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation 
activities.
	
The Company refrains from conducting its operations in environmentally fragile or ecologically sensitive regions. This strategic 
decision underscores the Company's commitment to responsible business practices and environmental stewardship, 
avoiding potential harm to delicate ecosystems. By deliberately choosing locations that are not ecologically sensitive, the 
Company aims to minimize its environmental impact and contribute to the preservation of biodiversity and natural habitats.
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as 
well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sr. 
No
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative 
(Web- link, if any, may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1.
RO plant
50 KLD ROchem RO system for new expansion to make new 
ETP ZLD
Under installation 
2.
MEE plant
For new expansion to make new ETP ZLD
Under installation
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
94
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/web link.
	
GTBL has implemented a comprehensive Business Continuity and Disaster Management framework to address potential 
operational disruptions and emergency situations. The Company’s On-Site Emergency Plan, prepared in accordance with 
the Factories Act, the Environment (Protection) Act and the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 
serves as the cornerstone of this framework.
	
The plan covers risk identification, hazard assessment, resource allocation, emergency communication protocols and the 
roles and responsibilities of key personnel. It outlines action steps for different types of emergencies, including fire, explosion, 
toxic chemical releases and natural disasters. An Emergency Response Team, headed by the Emergency Controller and 
supported by designated team leaders, ensures rapid response and coordination during incidents.
	
Regular mock drills, safety training sessions and evacuation exercises are conducted to test the effectiveness of the plan 
and raise employee awareness. The Company also maintains mutual aid arrangements with neighboring industries and 
liaises with local authorities for off-site emergency preparedness. Evacuation layouts and emergency contact details are 
prominently displayed across the facility to ensure immediate accessibility in case of emergencies.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard?
	
The Company has not identified any significant adverse environmental impact arising from its value chain during the 
reporting period. As such, no specific mitigation or adaptation measures have been required. However, the Company 
remains committed to environmental responsibility and continues to engage with its value chain partners to encourage good 
environmental practices.
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts.
	
The Company has not yet carried out a formal assessment of its value chain partners for environmental impacts by value 
of business transacted. That said, the Company acknowledges the importance of such evaluations and is in the process of 
exploring structured mechanisms to assess and monitor environmental performance across its value chain in the future.
 PRINCIPLE 7:   Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
a.	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
	
The Company is affiliated with one (1) trade and industry chambers/ associations.
b. 	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
Sr. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/
associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/associations 
(State/National)
1
Vapi Industrial Association 
State
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anticompetitive conduct by the entity, based 
on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective active taken
Not applicable since there were no cases of anti-competitive conduct by the Company
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
Sr. 
No
Public policy 
advocated
Method resorted 
for such 
advocacy
Whether information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review by Board 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly / 
Others – please specify)
Web Link, If 
available
We work closely with various trade and industry associations including industry representations to the government and 
regulators. We ensure that policy advocacy is carried out in a transparent and responsible manner taking into account our 
as well as the larger national interest.
95
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
  PRINCIPLE 8:     Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year.
Name and 
Brief details of 
project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes/No)
Relevant 
Web Link
No such projects were undertaken by the entity, hence Not Applicable.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your 
entity, in the following format:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. pf Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
5 of PAFs covered 
by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs 
in the FY (in INR)
Not Applicable
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
The Company has mechanisms in place to receive and address grievances from the community through its ongoing 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. These initiatives are implemented either directly or through external 
partners who maintain close engagement with local communities. These partners act as a bridge between the Company 
and the community, ensuring that concerns or grievances raised during the course of project implementation are promptly 
communicated and resolved. The Company monitors the effectiveness of these initiatives and ensures that grievances are 
addressed in a timely and appropriate manner, reflecting its commitment to maintaining trust and transparency with the 
communities it operates.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers.
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs / small producers
40%
10.83%
Some directly from within the district and neighboring districts
32.50%
53.48%
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on a 
permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost
Location
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Rural
74%
71%
Semi-Urban
12%
6 11%
Urban
8%
9%
Metropolitan
6%
9%
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your Company in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies:
Sr.No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In INR)
The Company has not undertaken any CSR projects in the designated aspirational districts as identified by the government
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
96
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
3.	
a. 	
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
No, the Company does not have a specific preferential procurement policy in place. However, we do implement a 
thorough screening process to ensure all suppliers meet our standards for quality, reliability and ethical practices. This 
process helps us maintain a responsible and diverse supply chain while ensuring that we engage with suppliers who 
align with our values and requirements.
b.	
From which marginalized / vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
Not Applicable
c.	
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
Not Applicable
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
Sr. 
No.
Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared 
(Yes / No)
Basis of calculating benefit share
NIL 
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein 
usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective Action taken
NIL 
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects
Sr. 
No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefited 
from CSR projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups
1
Healthcare
The amount was spent towards Kailash Cancer 
Hospital & Research Centre run by Muni Seva 
Ashram is situated in the rural area of Gujarat to 
serve the people of the region who are deprived 
of technologies and advanced facilities.
a)
Microtone - Histo Lab
31310
b)
2 Nos. Urine Analyzer - Pathology Lab
6140
c)
Endoscope Washer – OT
80
  Principle 9:      Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
The Company has established a structured mechanism to receive, investigate and resolve consumer complaints and 
feedback, particularly those related to product quality and safety. Complaints may be received from customers, healthcare 
professionals, regulatory bodies, distributors, or suppliers through various channels. Each complaint is promptly reviewed 
by a dedicated quality assurance team and a thorough investigation is conducted to identify root causes. Corrective 
and preventive actions are implemented wherever necessary to ensure continual improvement and avoid recurrence.
For raising concerns or providing feedback, consumers can contact the Company at: gtblmumbai@gtbl.in.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
Parameter
As a Percentage of Total turnover
Environmental and social parameters 
relevant to the product
NIL 
Safe and responsible usage
100% of our products carry information about its responsible and safe usage. We 
display relevant information on the product labels as per the requirement of national 
and international regulatory bodies’ guidelines for responsible and safe usage.
Recycling and / or safe disposal
NIL 
97
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Data privacy
No consumer complaints were received in any of the reporting period
Advertising
Cyber-security
Delivery of essential services
Restrictive Trade Practices
Unfair Trade Practices
Other
Total
	
In the regular course of business, we receive and resolve all our customers queries in a timely manner. Currently, there are no 
litigations in the respect of the enlisted matters.
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reason for recall
Voluntary recalls
NIL 
NA
Forced recalls
NIL 
NA
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide 
a web-link of the policy. No
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action 
taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
For FY 2024-25, there were no complaints received for issues pertaining to delivery of essential services, advertising, action 
taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches	 NIL 
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers	 NIL 
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches	
Not Applicable
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if 
available).
	
Information related to our products and services can be found on our website: https://www.gtbl.in/products/
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
	
Not Applicable.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
	
Not applicable
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/
Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction 
relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a 
whole? (Yes/No). 
	
Not applicable
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
98
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
Report on the Audit of the Ind AS Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Ind AS financial statements of GUJARAT THEMIS BIOSYN LIMITED (“the Company”) which 
comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), 
the Statement of Changes in Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended on that date and notes to financial 
statements, including a summary of material accounting policies.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Ind AS financial 
statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and 
fair view in conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended, (“Ind AS”) and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
of the state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2025 and its profit, total comprehensive income, changes in equity and its 
cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our 
responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Ind 
AS financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the Ind AS financial statements.
Key Audit Matters 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Ind AS 
financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Ind AS financial 
statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have 
determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Sr.No.
Key Audit Matter
How was the matter addressed in our audit
1
Revenue recognition [refer note no. 2.2(h) and 20 to the 
Ind AS financial statements]
Revenue is one of the key profit drivers and is therefore 
susceptible to misstatement. Cut-off is the key assertion 
in so far as revenue recognition is concerned, since an 
inappropriate cut-off can result in material misstatement 
of results for the year.

Audit procedures with regard to revenue recognition included 
testing controls, automated and manual, around dispatches/ 
deliveries, inventory reconciliations and circularization of 
receivable balances, substantive testing for cut-offs and 
analytical review procedures.
2
Capital work-in-progress/Property Plant and Equipment 
(PPE) [refer note no. 2.2(a) and 4 to the Ind AS financial 
statements]
The Company has made additions to the Capital work-in-
progress/ Property, Plant and Equipment of the ongoing 
units. Also, the Company has capitalized a portion of its 
capital work-in-progress considering them as ready to 
use. The assets need to be capitalized and depreciated 
once the assets are ready for use as intended by the 
management. Inappropriate timing of capitalization 
of the asset and/or inappropriate classification of 
categories of items of PPE could result in material 
misstatement of Capital work-in-progress/ PPE with a 
consequent impact on depreciation charge and results 
for the year.


Testing 
the 
design, 
implementation 
and 
operating 
effectiveness of controls in respect of review of capital 
work in progress, particularly in respect of timing of the 
capitalization and recording of additions to items of various 
categories of PPE with source documentation, substantive 
testing of appropriateness of the cut-off date considered for 
project capitalization. 
We tested the source documentation to determine whether 
the expenditure is of capital nature and has been appropriately 
approved and segregated into appropriate categories. Further, 
through sites visits, we have physically verified the existence 
of capital work in progress/ PPE as at the reporting period.
99
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
Sr.No.
Key Audit Matter
How was the matter addressed in our audit
3
Provisions and Contingent Liabilities
[refer note no. 2.2(l) and 30(B) to the Ind AS financial 
statements]
The Company is involved in some litigation that is 
pending with various authorities. Whether a liability 
is recognised or disclosed as a contingent liability in 
the financial statements is inherently judgmental and 
dependent on a number of significant assumptions and 
assessments. These include assumptions relating to 
the likelihood and/ or timing of the cash outflows from 
the business and the interpretation of local laws and 
judgements at various levels of the statute.a

Obtained an understanding from the management with 
respect to process and controls followed by the Company for 
identification and monitoring of developments in relation to 
the litigations, including completeness thereof.
Obtained the list of litigations from the management and 
reviewed their assessment of the likelihood of outflow of 
economic resources being probable, possible or remote 
in respect of the litigations. This involved assessing the 
probability of an unfavorable outcome of a given proceeding 
and the reliability of estimates of related amounts.
Performed substantive procedures including tracing from 
underlying documents / communications from the authorities 
and re-computation of the amounts involved.
Assessed management’s conclusions and understanding 
precedents in similar cases.
Other information
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report , Director’s Report including Annexures to Directors’ Report and Corporate Governance, BRSR and 
Shareholders information, but does not include the Ind AS financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the Ind AS financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Ind AS financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, 
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Ind AS financial statements or our knowledge obtained 
in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is 
a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Ind AS Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation of 
these Ind AS financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, total comprehensive 
income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the Ind AS and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection 
and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Ind AS financial statements that 
give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
In preparing the Ind AS financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Ind AS Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Ind AS financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
100
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually 
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
Ind AS financial statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout 
the audit. We also: 
• 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Ind AS financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override 
of internal control.
• 
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Companies Act, 2013, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the Company has adequate internal financial controls system in place and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls.
• 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
• 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on 
the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Ind AS financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
• 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Ind AS financial statements, including the disclosures and 
whether the Ind AS financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation. 
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the Ind AS financial statements that, individually or in aggregate makes it 
probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the Ind AS financial statements may be influenced. 
We consider quantitative materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results 
of our work; and (ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified misstatements in the Ind AS financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. 
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance 
in the audit of the Ind AS financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these 
matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of 
doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of India in 
terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013, we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters 
specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid Ind AS financial statements. 
101
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid Ind AS financial 
statements have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our examination of those books except for the 
matters stated in paragraph 2(j)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014.
c)	
The Company does not have any branches. Hence, the provisions of section 143(3)(c) is not applicable.
d)	
 The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Changes 
in Equity and the Statement of Cash Flow dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account.
e)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid Ind AS financial statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014. 
f)	
In our opinion, there are no financial transactions or matters which have any adverse effect on the functioning of the 
Company.
g)	
On the basis of the written representations received from the Directors as on March 31, 2025 taken on record by the 
Board of Directors, none of the Directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from being appointed as a Director in 
terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act. 
h)	
The modification relating to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith are as stated in the 
paragraph 2(b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 2(j)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
i)	
With respect to adequacy of internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Company and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure B”
j)	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we report as under with 
respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to 
us:
(i)	
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position as referred to Note 30(B) to the 
Ind AS financial statement.
(ii)	 The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts; as such the question of commenting 
on any material foreseeable losses thereon does not arise.
(iii)	 There has been no delay in transferring amounts which were required to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Company.
	
(iv)	 (a)	 The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either 
individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share 
premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person or entity, including foreign 
entity (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
(b) 	 The Management has represented, that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either 
individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Company from any person or entity, including foreign 
entity (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, 
whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
(c) 	 Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) 
of Rule 11(e), as provided under (a) and (b) above, contain any material misstatement.
(v)	 As stated in Note 12(viii) to the Ind AS financial statements, the dividend declared and paid during the year by the 
Company is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
102
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
(vi)	 Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 for maintaining books of account using accounting 
software which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility is applicable to the Company with effect from April 
1, 2023 and accordingly, the reporting under Rule 11(g) of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rule, 2014 is applicable 
from April 1, 2023.
	
Based on our examination which included test checks, the Company, has used accounting software for maintaining 
its books of account for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility. It was not enabled for the period April 1, 2024 to July 24, 2024 and the same has been operated from July 25, 
2024. Further, during the course of our audit, we did not come across any instance of audit trail feature being tampered 
with and the audit trail has been preserved by the Company as per the statutory requirements for record retention.
3.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the requirements of section 
197(16) of the Act, as amended:
	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by the 
Company to its Directors during the year is in accordance with the provisions of section 197 of the Act.
Place : Mumbai
Date : 20th May, 2025
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
(FRN: 103429W)
CA Amit Maheshwari
Partner
M. No.: 428706
UDIN : 25428706BMIOYK3264
103
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
ANNEXURE ‘A’ TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date on the 
Financial Statements of Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited for the year ended March 31, 2025)
i.	
(a) 	 A.	
The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars including quantitative details and situation 
of Property, Plant and Equipment and relevant details of right-of-use assets.
	
	
B.	
The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
(b) 	 Property, Plant and Equipment have been physically verified by the management at regular intervals. According to the 
information and explanations given to us, no material discrepancies were noticed on such physical verification.
(c) 	 According to the information and explanation given to us and on the basis of our verification, title deeds of all immovable 
properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour 
of the lessee) are held in the name of the Company.
(d)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the Company has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) and intangible 
assets during the year.
(e)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, no proceedings have been initiated during the year or are pending against the Company as at March 31, 2025 
for holding any benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) act, 1988 (45 of 1988 as amended in 
2016) and rules made thereunder.
ii.	
(a)	 The inventory has been physically verified by the management during the year. In our opinion, the frequency of such 
verification is reasonable and procedures and coverage as followed by management were appropriate. No discrepancies 
were noticed on verification between the physical stocks and the books of account that were more than 10% in the 
aggregate of each class of inventory. 
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, during any point of time of the year, the Company has not been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of 
five crore rupees, in aggregate, from banks or financial institutions on the basis of security of current assets. Accordingly, 
reporting under clause (ii)(b) of paragraph 3 of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
iii. 	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, 
the Company has granted unsecured loans to companies and the Company has not made any investments in, not provided 
any guarantee or security or advances in the nature of loans, secured or unsecured, to companies, firms, limited liability 
partnership or any other parties during the year. 
(a)	 Based on the audit procedures carried on by us and as per the information and explanations given to us, the Company 
has not granted unsecured loans to companies during the year (as per the table given below) and not provided advances 
in the nature of loans, or stood guarantee, or provided security to any other entity.
(INR in Lacs)
Particulars
Loans
Aggregate amount granted/ provided during the year-
- Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures & Associates
-
- Others
-
Balance outstanding (gross) as at balance sheet date in respect of the above cases-
- Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures & Associates
-
- Others
75.00
(b) 	 According to the information and explanations given to us and based on the audit procedures conducted by us, in our 
opinion the terms and conditions of a granted unsecured loans, are prima facie not prejudicial to the interest of the 
Company. The Company has not made any investments, not provided any guarantee or security or granted any loans 
and advances in the nature of loans during the year.
(c) 	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, In respect of the loans outstanding as on the balance sheet date, the schedule of repayment of principal and 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
104
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
payment of interest has been stipulated by the Company and the parties are regular in payment of principal and interest, 
as applicable.
(d) 	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, there is no amount overdue during the year. 
(e) 	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, no loan or advance in the nature of loan granted which has fallen due during the year, has been renewed or 
extended or fresh loans granted to settle the overdues of existing loans given to the same parties. Accordingly, reporting 
under clause (iii)(e) of paragraph 3 of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(f) 	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, no loans granted during the year had stipulated the scheduled repayment of principal and payment of interest. 
No loans were granted during the year to promoters and related parties. The Company has not granted any loans and 
advances in the nature of loans either repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment.
iv.	
According to the information and explanation given to us, during the year, the Company has not granted any loans, not made 
any investment and not provided any guarantees or security to the parties covered under section 185 of the Companies Act, 
2013. The Company has complied with the provisions of section 185 and 186 of the Act to the extent applicable.
v.	
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not accepted any deposits or there is no amount 
which has been considered as deemed deposit within the meaning of sections 73 to 76 of the Act and the Companies 
(Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 (as amended). Accordingly, reporting under clause (v) of paragraph 3 of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
vi.	
We have broadly reviewed the books of account maintained by the Company in the respect of the products where, pursuant 
to the Rules made by the Central Government, the maintenance of Cost Records have been prescribed under section 148(1) 
of the Act and are of the opinion that, prima facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been made and maintained. We 
have not, however, made a detailed examination of the records with a view to whether they are accurate or complete.
vii.	 (a)	 According to the information and explanation given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, in respect of undisputed statutory dues including Goods and Services Tax, provident fund, employees' state 
insurance, income-tax, sales-tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value added tax, cess and any other 
statutory dues have been regularly deposited with the appropriate authorities. 
	
	
According to the information and explanations given to us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of the aforesaid 
dues were in arrears as at March 31, 2025 for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanation given to us and on the basis of our examination of our records of the 
Company, there have been no disputed dues which have not been deposited in respect of income tax, goods and 
services tax, sales tax, service tax, excise duty, duty of customs or value added tax as at March 31, 2025.
viii.	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, 
the Company has not surrendered or disclosed any transactions, previously unrecorded as income in the books of account, 
in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 as income during the year.
ix. 	 (a)	 According to the records of the Company examined by us and the information and explanations given to us, the Company 
has not defaulted in repayment of loans or other borrowings or in the payment of interest to any lender during the year.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our audit procedures, the Company has 
not been declared willful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government authority.
	
(c) 	 According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has taken term loans during the year and the 
Company has utilized the money obtained by way of term loan for the purposes for which they were obtained.
	
(d) 	 According to the information and explanations given to us and the procedures performed by us and on an overall 
examination of the financial statements of the Company, we report that no funds raised on short-term basis have been 
used for long-term purposes by the Company.
	
The Company does not have any subsidiary, associate or joint venture (as defined under the Act) during the year ended March 
31, 2025. Therefore, the provisions of clause (ix)(e) and (ix)(f) of paragraph 3 of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
105
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
x. 	
(a)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and based on the records and documents produced before 
us, during the year the Company has not raised money by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt 
instruments), therefore, the provisions of clause (x)(a) of paragraph 3 of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
	
(b) 	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of 
the Company, the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or convertible 
debentures (fully, partially or optionally convertible) during the year. Accordingly, clause (x)(b) of paragraph 3 of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
xi.	
(a) 	 Based on examination of the books and records of the Company and according to the information and explanations 
given to us, considering the principles of materiality as outlined in the Standards on Auditing, we report that no fraud by 
the Company or on the Company has been noticed or reported during the course of the audit. 
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given to us, no report under Section 143(12) of the Act has been filed by 
the auditors in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central 
Government.
	
(c) 	 As represented to us by the management, there are no whistle-blower complaints received by the Company during the 
year.
xii. 	 As the Company is not a Nidhi Company and the Nidhi Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it, therefore the provisions of clause 
(xii) of paragraph 3 of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
xiii. 	 According to the information and explanation given to us, all transactions with the related parties are in compliance with 
Sections 177 and 188 of the Act. The details of such related party transactions have been disclosed in the financial statements 
as required under Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24, Related Party Disclosures specified under Section 133 of the Act.
xiv.	 (a)	 In our opinion and according to the information and explanation given to us, the Company has an internal audit system 
commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
	
(b) 	 We have considered the internal audit reports of the Company issued till date, for the period under audit.
xv. 	 According to the information and explanations given to us, in our opinion during the year the Company has not entered into 
any non-cash transactions with its Directors or persons connected with its Directors and hence provisions of section 192 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 are not applicable to the Company.
xvi. 	 (a) 	 The Company is not required to be registered under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, 
clause (xvi)(a) of paragraph 3 of the Order is not applicable to the Company. 
	
(b) 	 The Company has not conducted non-banking financial / housing finance activities during the year. Accordingly, the 
reporting under clause (xvi)(b) of paragraph 3 of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(c) 	 The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the Reserve Bank of India. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause (xvi)(c) of paragraph 3 of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(d) 	 Based on the information and explanations provided by the management of the Company, during the course of audit, 
the Company (as per the provisions of the Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) does not have 
any CIC.
xvii. 	The Company has not incurred any cash losses in the financial year and in the immediately preceding financial year.
xviii.	There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year. Accordingly, clause (xviii) of paragraph 3 of the order 
is not applicable to the Company.
xix. 	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected dates 
of realisation of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the Ind AS financial 
statements, our knowledge of the Board of Directors and management plans and based on our examination of the evidence 
supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty 
exists as on the date of the audit report that Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance 
sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Company. We further state that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of 
the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year 
from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
106
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
xx.	 (a)	 In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, there is no unspent amount under sub-
section (5) of Section 135 of the Act pursuant to any project other than ongoing projects. Accordingly, clause (xx)(a) of 
paragraph 3 of the Order is not applicable.
	
(b)	 In respect of ongoing projects, in our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, The amount 
remaining unspent under section (5) of section 135 of Companies Act, pursuant to any ongoing project, has been 
transferred to special account in compliance with provision of sub section (6) of section 135 of the said Act. 
Financial year
Amount unspent on Corporate 
Social Responsibility activities 
for “Ongoing Projects”
(INR in Lacs)
Amount Transferred to Special 
Account within 30 days from 
the end of the Financial Year 
(INR in Lacs)
Amount Transferred after the 
due date (specify the date of 
transfer)
(INR in Lacs)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
2024-25
140.84
140.84
-
2023-24
17.45
17.45
-
2022-23
15.85
15.85
-
Place : Mumbai
Date : 20th May, 2025
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
(FRN: 103429W)
CA Amit Maheshwari
Partner
M. No.: 428706
UDIN : 25428706BMIOYK3264
ANNEXURE – ‘B’ TO THE AUDITORS’ REPORT
(Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”))
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of “GUJARAT THEMIS BIOSYN LIMITED” ("the Company") 
as of March 31, 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the Ind AS financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that 
date. 
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls 
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control 
over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (‘ICAI’). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to Company’s 
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013. 
Auditors’ Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal financial controls over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting 
(the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under section 143(10) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an audit of Internal 
Financial Controls and both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting was established and maintained and if such controls operated 
effectively in all material respects. 
107
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system 
over financial reporting and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting included 
obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The 
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the 
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls system over financial reporting. 
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting
A Company's internal financial control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A Company's internal financial control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that 
(1)	 Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions 
of the assets of the Company; 
(2) 	 Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being 
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and Directors of the Company; and 
(3) 	 Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
Company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that 
the internal financial control over financial reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree 
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
Opinion 
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting 
and such internal financial controls over financial reporting were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India. 
Place : Mumbai
Date : 20th May, 2025
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
(FRN: 103429W)
CA Amit Maheshwari
Partner
M. No.: 428706
UDIN : 25428706BMIOYK3264
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
108
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Particulars
Note 
No.
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
ASSETS 
Non-Current Assets 
(a) 	 Property, Plant and Equipment 
4
4,058.01 
3,527.51 
(b) 	 Capital Work-in-Progress 
4
18,440.81 
9,122.35 
(c) 	 Right-of-use Assets 
4(a)
54.94 
274.13 
(d) 	 Other Intangible Assets 
4(b)
15.91 
- 
(e) 	 Financial Assets 
(i) 	
Loans 
5
75.00 
75.00 
(ii) 	 Other Financial Assets 
5
161.87 
3,525.69 
(f) 	
Other Non-Current Assets 
10
2,127.41 
830.45 
Total Non-Current Assets 
24,933.94 
17,355.12 
Current Assets 
(a) 	 Inventories 
6
504.61 
332.68 
(b)	
Financial Assets 
(i) 	
Trade Receivables
7
3,123.82 
2,702.55 
(ii) 	 Cash and Cash Equivalents
8
1,169.39 
646.92 
(iii)	 Bank Balances other than (ii) above
9
85.42 
168.76 
(iv) 	 Loans
5
0.35 
0.23 
(v) 	 Other Financial Assets
5
99.44 
817.87 
(c) 	 Other Current Assets 
10
214.28 
87.20 
Total Current Assets 
5,197.31 
4,756.21 
TOTAL ASSETS 
30,131.25 
22,111.33 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
Equity 
(a) Equity Share capital 
12
1,089.65 
726.44 
(b) Other Equity 
13
23,748.54 
19,411.17 
Total Equity 
24,838.20 
20,137.60 
Liabilities 
(A) 	 Non Current Liabilities 
(a) 	 Financial Liabilities 
(i) 	
Borrowings 
14
2,963.60 
- 
(ia) 	 Lease liabilities 
14(a)
- 
122.47 
(b) 	 Provisions 
18
77.28 
68.90 
(c) 	 Deferred Tax liabilities (Net) 
11
196.21 
166.44 
Total Non-Current Liabilities 
3,237.09 
357.81 
(B) 	 Current Liabilities 
(a) 	 Financial Liabilities 
(i) 	
Borrowings 
14
25.39 
- 
	
(ia) 	
Lease liabilities 
14(a)
57.97 
154.37 
(ii) 	 Trade Payables 
16
	
	
	
-	
Total outstanding dues of Micro enterprises and  Small enterprises 
65.36 
85.66 
	
	
	
-	
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than  micro enterprises 
and small enterprises 
1,399.60 
905.18 
(iii) 	 Other Financial Liabilities 
15
428.44 
334.08 
(b) 	 Other Current Liabilities 
17
50.89 
105.72 
(c) 	 Provisions 
18
28.32 
30.91 
(d) 	 Current Tax Liabilities (Net) 
19
- 
- 
Total Current Liabilities 
2,055.97 
1,615.92 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
30,131.25 
22,111.33
BALANCE SHEET As at March 31, 2025
(Amount in INR Lacs)
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No: 103429W
 Sd/-
Sachin D. Patel
Director
DIN: 00033353
 Sd/-
Dinesh S. Patel
Chairman
DIN: 00033273
 Sd/-
Tapas Guha Thakurata
Chief Executive Officer
 Sd/-
CA Amit Maheshwari
Partner
Membership No: 428706
UDIN: 25428706BMIOYK3264
 Sd/-
Vineet Gawankar
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A55504
 Sd/-
Bhavik Shah
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 20, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 20, 2025
Material Accounting Policies and Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements	
       1-51
109
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No: 103429W
 Sd/-
Sachin D. Patel
Director
DIN: 00033353
 Sd/-
Dinesh S. Patel
Chairman
DIN: 00033273
 Sd/-
Tapas Guha Thakurata
Chief Executive Officer
 Sd/-
CA Amit Maheshwari
Partner
Membership No: 428706
UDIN: 25428706BMIOYK3264
 Sd/-
Vineet Gawankar
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A55504
 Sd/-
Bhavik Shah
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 20, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 20, 2025
Material Accounting Policies and Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements	
       1-51
Particulars
Note 
No.
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
INCOME
Revenue from operations (net)
20
15,079.99 
16,982.19 
Other Income
21
243.24 
436.57 
Total Income 
15,323.23 
17,418.76 
EXPENSES
Cost of materials consumed
22
2,577.72 
2,566.71 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in -trade and work-in-process
23
(127.23)
1,101.31 
Employee benefits expense
24
1,264.11 
1,141.48 
Finance costs
25
36.40 
22.92 
Depreciation and amortization expenses
26
537.49 
353.59 
Other expenses
27
i) Stores and spares
737.32 
492.73 
ii) Power
1,997.36 
1,981.80 
iii) Fuel
563.90 
545.28 
iv) Water
102.21 
125.90 
v) Other expenditures
1,080.16 
1,153.60 
Total Expenses 
8,769.44 
9,485.32 
Profit before exceptional items and tax 
6,553.79 
7,933.43 
Exceptional Items
- 
- 
Profit before tax 
6,553.79 
7,933.43 
Tax expense:
Current tax 
1,669.62 
1,950.90 
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
(21.05)
28.70 
Deferred tax
28.05 
37.51 
Profit after tax
4,877.17 
5,916.32 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Other Comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit and loss in 
subsequent periods:
Remeasurement of gains/ (losses) on defined benefit plans
6.81 
(4.27)
Income tax effect on above
(1.71)
1.07 
Other Comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
5.10 
(3.20)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE PERIOD, NET OF TAX
4,882.26 
5,913.12 
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share
28
Basic and Diluted EPS
4.48 
5.43
(Amount in INR Lacs)
STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS for the year ended March 31, 2025
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
110
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended March 31, 2025
A. Equity Share Capital
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Balance at the 
Beginning of the 
current reporting 
period
Changes in equity 
share capital due 
to prior period 
errors
Restated balance 
at the beginning 
of the current 
reporting period
Changes in Equity 
share capital 
during the current 
year
Balance at the 
end of the current 
reporting period
As at March 31, 2025
Numbers2
7,26,43,510 
- 
7,26,43,510 
3,63,21,755
10,89,65,265 
Amount
726.44 
- 
726.44 
363.22 
1,089.65 
As at March 31, 2024
Numbers1
1,45,28,702 
- 
1,45,28,702 
5,81,14,808 
7,26,43,510 
Amount
726.44 
- 
726.44 
- 
726.44
1.	 The Company on October 10, 2023 ("Record Date"), sub-divided/split of existing Equity Share of the Company from 1 (One) 
Equity Share having face value of INR 5 (Rupees Five only) each fully paid-up, into 5 (Five) Equity Shares having face value of 
INR 1 (Rupee One only) each fully paid-up. (Refer Note 12)
2.	 The Company on August 09, 2024 ("Record Date"), issued fully paid up bonus equity shares in the ratio of 1 (one) fully paid 
Bonus Share for every 2 (two) Equity Share (1:2) held by the Equity Shareholders of the Company. (Refer Note 12)
B. Other Equity 
1) Current reporting period
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Capital Reserve
Securities Premium
Retained Earnings
Total
As at March 31, 2024
15.69 
216.44 
19,179.04 19,411.17 
Changes in accounting policy or prior period errors
- 
- 
- 
- 
Restated balance at the beginning of the period
15.69 
216.44 
19,179.04 19,411.17 
Total comprehensive income for the current year
- 
- 
4,882.26 
4,882.26 
Dividend
- 
- 
(181.67)
(181.67)
Transfer to Retained earnings
- 
- 
- 
- 
Bonus Issue
- 
(216.44)
(146.78)
(363.22)
As at March 31, 2025
15.69 
- 
23,732.85 23,748.54
2) Previous reporting period
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Capital Reserve
Securities Premium
Retained Earnings
Total
As at March 31, 2023
15.69 
216.44 
13,956.03 
14,188.16 
Changes in accounting policy or prior period errors
- 
- 
- 
- 
Restated balance at the beginning of the period
15.69 
216.44 
13,956.03 
14,188.16 
Total comprehensive income for the previous year
- 
- 
5,913.12 
5,913.12 
Dividends
- 
- 
(690.11)
(690.11)
Transfer to Retained earnings
- 
- 
- 
- 
Bonus Issue
- 
- 
- 
- 
As at March 31, 2024
15.69 
216.44 
19,179.04 
19,411.17
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No: 103429W
 Sd/-
Sachin D. Patel
Director
DIN: 00033353
 Sd/-
Dinesh S. Patel
Chairman
DIN: 00033273
 Sd/-
Tapas Guha Thakurata
Chief Executive Officer
 Sd/-
CA Amit Maheshwari
Partner
Membership No: 428706
UDIN: 25428706BMIOYK3264
 Sd/-
Vineet Gawankar
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A55504
 Sd/-
Bhavik Shah
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 20, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 20, 2025
Material Accounting Policies and Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements	
       1-51
111
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Profit before tax 
6,553.79 
7,933.43 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
565.24 
406.35 
Interest income classified as investing activities
(63.84)
(387.43)
Sundry balance written back
(11.34)
(0.90)
Interest income on Lease Liabilities
(7.35)
(7.77)
Gain on lease termination
(11.88)
- 
Foreign exchange fluctuation gain
(5.34)
- 
Finance costs
43.91 
36.19 
Change in operating assets and liabilities:
(Increase)/Decrease in trade receivables
(421.27)
(912.02)
(Increase)/Decrease in inventories
(171.94)
1,129.21 
(Increase)/Decrease in Other bank balance
83.34 
159.14 
(Increase)/Decrease in other financial assets
5,079.22 
(38.60)
(Increase)/Decrease in other assets
(1,424.03)
43.91 
Increase/(Decrease) in trade payables
479.45 
37.29 
Increase/(Decrease) in other financial liabilities
105.70 
34.66 
Increase/(Decrease) in provisions
12.61 
12.65 
Increase/(Decrease) in other current liabilities
(54.83)
(46.77)
Cash generated from operations
10,751.43 
8,399.35 
Less: Income taxes paid (Net)
(1,648.57)
(1,978.05)
Net cash inflow/ (outflow) from operating activities
9,102.86 
6,421.31 
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Payments for property, plant and equipment
(11,615.02)
(7,464.46)
Receipts from repayment of loans given to other parties
(0.12)
1,674.77 
Interest received
433.33 
268.50 
Net cash inflow/ (outflow) from investing activities
(11,181.82)
(5,521.19)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Proceeds from Borrowings (Net of repayment)
2,988.99 
- 
Dividend paid
(181.67)
(690.11)
Repayment of Lease Liabilities
(163.11)
(159.64)
Interest paid
(42.79)
(8.94)
Net cash inflow/ (outflow) from financing activities
2,601.43 
(858.69)
Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
522.47 
41.43 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the financial year
646.92 
605.50 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at end of the year
1,169.39 
646.92 
Cash and cash equivalents as per above comprise of the following:
Balances with banks 
197.85 
84.09 
Cash on hand
0.29 
0.58 
Bank Deposits with less than 3 months maturities
971.25 
562.25 
Balances as per statement of cash flows
1,169.39 
646.92
(Amount in INR Lacs)
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS for the year ended March 31, 2025
Note: The above statement has been prepared by the 'Indirect Method' as set out in Ind AS 7 on Statement of Cash Flows as 
prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013.
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No: 103429W
 Sd/-
Sachin D. Patel
Director
DIN: 00033353
 Sd/-
Dinesh S. Patel
Chairman
DIN: 00033273
 Sd/-
Tapas Guha Thakurata
Chief Executive Officer
 Sd/-
CA Amit Maheshwari
Partner
Membership No: 428706
UDIN: 25428706BMIOYK3264
 Sd/-
Vineet Gawankar
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A55504
 Sd/-
Bhavik Shah
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 20, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 20, 2025
Material Accounting Policies and Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements	
       1-51
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
112
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the Year Ended March 31, 2025
1
CORPORATE INFORMATION
These statements comprise financial statements of Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited (CIN: L24230GJ1981PLC004878) ('the 
Company') for the year period ended March 31, 2025. The Company is a public Company domiciled in India and is incorporated 
on December 11, 1981 under the provisions of the Companies Act applicable in India. Its shares are listed on a recognised 
stock exchange [Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE)] in India. The registered office of the Company is located at Plot No 69C, G.I.D.C 
Industrial Estate, Vapi district Valsad, Gujarat -396 195.
The Company is principally engaged in the activities pertaining to manufacturing of Bulk Drugs.
2
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2.1	 Basis of preparation
	
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared and presented in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS) notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended by the Companies(Indian 
Accounting Standards)(Amendment) Rules, 2016 and the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 ("the Act").
	
The financial statements for the period ended March 31, 2025 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorized for 
issue on May 20, 2025.
	
The accounting policies are applied consistently (except where a newly issued accounting standard is initially adopted or 
a revision to an existing accounting standard requires a change in the accounting policy hitherto in use) to all the periods 
presented in the financial statements . The Company has identified twelve months as its operating cycle.
	
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non-current as per the Company’s normal operating cycle and 
other criteria set out in the Schedule III to the Act.
	
Historical cost convention
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the following:
- 	
Certain financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value or at amortised cost depending on the classification(refer 
accounting policy regarding financial instruments),
- 	
Employee defined benefit assets/(obligations) are recognised as the net total of the fair value of plan assets, plus 
actuarial losses, less actuarial gains and the present value of the defined benefit obligations and
	
Rounding of amounts
	
All amounts disclosed in the financial statements and notes have been rounded off to the nearest Lacs as per the requirement 
of Schedule III, unless otherwise stated.
	
Use of estimates and judgments:
	
The estimates and judgements used in the preparation of the financial statements are continuously evaluated by the 
Company and are based on historical experience and various other assumptions and factors (including expectations of 
future events) that the Company believes to be reasonable under the existing circumstances. Differences between actual 
results and estimates are recognised in the period in which the results are known/materialised.
	
The said estimates are based on the facts and events, that existed as at the reporting date, or that occurred after that date 
but provide additional evidence about conditions existing as at the reporting date.
2.2	 Summary of Material accounting policies
(a)	 Property, plant and equipment (PPE)
	
The Company had applied for the one time transition exemption of considering the carrying cost on the transition date 
i.e. 1st April, 2016 as the deemed cost under IND AS. Hence regarded thereafter as historical cost.
	
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any.
	
The initial cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price, including import duties and non-
refundable purchase taxes and any directly attributable costs of bringing an asset to working condition and location for 
its intended use. It also includes the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring 
the site on which it is located. The initial cost also includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment and 
borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met.
113
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
	
Depreciation is recognised using straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of the assets. Where cost of 
a part of the asset (“asset component”) is significant to total cost of the asset and useful life of that part is different 
from the useful life of the remaining asset, useful life of that significant part is determined separately and such asset 
component is depreciated over its separate useful life. In the case of qualifying assets, cost also includes applicable 
borrowing costs vide policy relating to borrowing costs.
	
An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognized is de-recognized upon disposal or 
when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on de-recognition of 
the asset is included in the statement of profit and loss when the property, plant and equipment is de-recognized.
	
An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognized is de-recognized upon disposal 
or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on de-recognition 
of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is 
included in the statement of profit and loss when the Property, plant and equipment is de-recognized.
	
Costs of assets are not yet ready for their intended use at the balance sheet date are disclosed under capital work- in- 
progress. Such cost includes indirect expenses incurred during construction period if the recognition criteria are met.
	
Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives and residual value
	
Depreciation is calculated on straight line basis and written down value method using the useful lives estimated by the 
management, which are equal to those prescribed under Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. Management believes 
that useful life of assets are same as those prescribed in Schedule II to the Act, except for plant and equipment’s 
wherein based on technical evaluation, useful life has been estimated to be different from that prescribed in Schedule II 
of the Act.
	
If the management's estimate of the useful life of a item of property, plant and equipment at the time of acquisition or 
the remaining useful life on a subsequent review is shorter than the envisaged in the aforesaid schedule, depreciation 
is provided at a higher rate based on the management's estimate of the useful life/ remaining useful life.
	
The estimated useful lives and method of depreciation are as follows:
Asset Category
No. of years
Method of Depreciation
Buildings
10 to 30
SLM
Plant and Machinery
5 to 20
SLM
Leasehold Improvement
3
SLM
Office equipment 
5
WDV
Furniture and fixtures 
10
WDV
Staff Quarters
60
WDV
Computer
3 to 6
WDV
Vehicles 
8
WDV
	
Capital work-in-progress is not depreciated.
	
The residual values are not more than 5% of the original cost of the asset.
	
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting 
period. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying 
amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
(b)	 Intangible assets
	
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Company and that have finite useful lives are measured at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Subsequent expenditures are capitalized only 
when they increase the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which they relate.
	
The estimated useful life of other intangible assets is 3 years.
(c)	 Research and development
	
Revenue expenditure pertaining to research is charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss. Development costs of 
products are also charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss in the year it is incurred, unless a product’s technological 
feasibility has been established, in which case such expenditure is capitalised. These costs are charged to the respective 
heads in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the year it is incurred. The amount capitalised comprises of expenditure 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
114
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
that can be directly attributed or allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis for creating, producing and making the 
asset ready for its intended use. Property, plant and equipment utilised for research and development are capitalised 
and depreciated in accordance with the policies stated for Property, plant and equipment.
(d)	 Leases
	
The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement 
at the inception of the lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an 
identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. A period of time may be described in terms of the 
amount of use of an identified asset.
	
Company as a lessee
	
The Company applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for short term leases and 
leases of low-value assets. The Company recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use assets 
representing the right to use the underlying assets.
	
A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease or an operating lease. Leases of property, plant and 
equipment where the Company, as lessee, has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as 
finance leases.
	
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are not transferred to the Company as 
lessee are classified as operating leases.
A. 	 Right-of-use assets
	
The Company recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying 
asset is available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses and adjusted for any re-measurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets 
includes the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred and lease payments made at or 
before the commencement date - less any lease incentives received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term.
	
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Company at the end of the lease term or the cost reflects the 
exercise of a purchase option, depreciation is calculated using the estimated useful life of the asset.
B. 	 Lease Liabilities
	
At the commencement date of the lease, the Company recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value 
of lease payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments (including in 
substance fixed payments) less any lease incentives receivable, variable lease payments that depend on an index 
or a rate and amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. The lease payments also include the 
exercise price of a purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised by the Company and payments of penalties 
for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Company exercising the option to terminate.
	
In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease 
commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable.
	
The lease liability is subsequently remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term or a change in 
the lease payments.
C. 	 Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
	
The Company applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases of machinery and 
equipment (i.e., those leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement date and do 
not contain a purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption to leases of 
office equipment that are considered to be low value. Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-
value assets are recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
(e)	 Impairment of non financial assets
	
As at the end of each financial year, the carrying amounts of PPE are reviewed to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If such indication exists, PPE are tested for impairment 
so as to determine the impairment loss, if any.
	
For the purpose of assessing impairment, an estimate of the recoverable amount of the individual asset/cash generating 
unit is made. Impairment loss is recognised when the carrying amount of an asset/ cash generating unit exceeds its 
recoverable amount.
115
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
	
Recoverable amount is determined:
(i) 	 in the case of an individual asset, at the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value-in-use; and
(ii) 	 in the case of a cash generating unit , at the higher of the cash generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and the 
value-in-use.
	
The amount of value-in-use is determined as the present value of estimated future cash flows from the continuing use 
of an asset, which may vary based on the future performance of the Company and from its disposal at the end of its 
useful life. For this purpose, the discount rate (pre-tax) is determined based on the weighted average cost of capital of 
the Company suitably adjusted for risks specified to the estimated cash flows of the asset. If recoverable amount of an 
asset (or cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, such deficit is recognised immediately 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss as impairment loss and the carrying amount of the asset (or cash generating unit) 
is reduced to its recoverable amount.
	
Impairment losses are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. After impairment, depreciation is provided on the 
revised carrying amount of the asset over its remaining useful life.
(f)	
Financial Instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instruments.
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity 
instrument of another entity.
A. 	 Financial assets
A.1 	 Initial recognition
	
Financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss, other than trade receivables, are initially 
recognized at fair value plus transaction costs. Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss 
are initially recognized at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in the Statement of Profit and Loss. 
Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Group has applied 
the practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under Ind AS 115. Refer policy on 
Revenue from contracts with customers.
A.2.	 Subsequent measurement
	
Financial assets, other than equity instruments, are subsequently measured at amortized cost, fair value 
through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”) or fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) on the basis of 
following:
(i) 	 Financial assets at amortized cost:
	
A financial asset is measured at amortized cost, if it is held under the hold to collect business model. 
Amortized cost is calculated using the effective interest rate (“EIR”) method by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR 
amortization is included in interest income in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
(ii) 	 Measured Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI):
	
A debt instrument is measured at FVOCI, if it is held under the hold to collect and sell business model. It is 
subsequently measured at fair value with fair value movements recognized in the OCI, except for interest 
income which is recognized using EIR method. On de-recognition, cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognized in the OCI is reclassified from the equity to Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
For equity instruments, the Company may make an irrevocable election to present subsequent changes 
in the fair value in OCI. The Company makes such election on an instrument-by-instrument basis. If 
the Company decides to classify an equity instrument as at FVOCI, then all fair value changes on the 
instrument, excluding dividends, are recognised in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from 
OCI to the statement of profit and loss, even on sale of investment. However, the Company may transfer 
the cumulative gain or loss within equity.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
116
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
(iii) 	 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
	
Investment in financial asset other than equity instrument, not measured at either amortized cost or 
FVOCI is measured at FVTPL. Such financial assets are measured at fair value with all changes in fair 
value, including interest income and dividend income if any, recognized in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss.
	
Any equity instrument in the scope of Ind AS 109 are measured at fair value, unless elected to measure 
at FVOCI.
A.3.	 Impairment
	
The Company follows 'simplified approach' for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables, 
contract assets and lease receivables. The application of simplified approach does not require the Company 
to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each 
reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
	
At each reporting date, for recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the 
Company determines whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. 
If credit risk has not increased significantly, 12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, 
if credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the 
instrument improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, 
then the Company reverts to recognising impairment loss allowance based on 12-month ECL.
	
For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, the Company combines financial instruments on 
the basis of shared credit risk characteristics with the objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to 
enable significant increases in credit risk to be identified on a timely basis.
A.4. Trade Receivables
	
Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are measured at transaction price.
	
In respect of trade receivables, the Company applies the simplified approach of IND AS 109 “Financial 
Instruments”, which requires measurement of loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit 
losses. Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default 
events over the expected life of a financial instrument.
	
For Trade Receivables, the Company applies ‘simplified approach’ which requires expected lifetime losses to 
be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
A.5. De-recognition
	
The Company de-recognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial 
asset expire, or it transfers rights to receive cash flows from an asset, it evaluates if and to what extent it has 
retained the risks and rewards of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of 
the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Company continues to recognize 
the transferred asset to the extent of the Company’s continuing involvement. In that case, the Company also 
recognizes an associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis 
that reflects the rights and obligations that the Company has retained.
B. 	 Financial Liabilities
B.1. 	Initial Recognition and measurement
	
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of financial liabilities at amortised 
cost, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
	
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans, borrowings and trade and other payables are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
B.2. 	De-recognition
	
A financial liability is de-recognized when the obligations under the liability is discharged or cancelled or 
expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially 
different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or 
modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. When 
a new financial liability is recognised in place of an existing one, the difference in the respective carrying 
amounts is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
117
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
C. 	 Equity Instruments:
	
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting 
all of its liabilities. Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
	
The Company recognises a liability to pay dividend to equity holders of the Company when the distribution is 
authorised and the distribution is no longer at the discretion of the Company. As per the corporate laws in India, 
a distribution with respect to interim dividend is authorised when it is approved by the Board of Directors of the 
Company and final dividend is authorised when it is approved by the shareholders. A corresponding amount is 
recognised directly in equity.
(g)	 Inventories
	
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
	
Raw materials: cost includes cost of purchase and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present 
location and condition. Cost is determined on First In First Out (FIFO) basis.
	
Finished goods and work in progress: cost includes cost of purchase, cost of conversion and other costs including 
manufacturing overheads allocated based on the normal operating capacity incurred in bringing them to their respective 
present location and condition. Cost is determined on FIFO basis.
	
Stores and Spares: cost includes cost of purchase and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present 
location and condition. Cost is determined on First In First Out (FIFO) basis.
	
Materials in transit: cost incurred to date.
	
Obsolete, slow moving and defective inventories are identified from time to time and, where necessary, a provision is 
made for such inventories.
(h)	 Revenue from contracts with customers
	
The Company recognizes revenue, whenever control over distinct goods or services is transferred to the customer, 
provided a contract with enforceable rights and obligations exists and amongst others collectability of consideration is 
probable taking into account customer’s credit worthiness.
	
Revenue is the transaction price the Company expects to be entitled to. In determining the transaction price, the 
Company considers effects of variable consideration such as the amount of discounts, incentives, volume rebates, 
outgoing taxes on sales etc. and the existence of significant financing contracts, non-cash consideration and 
consideration payable to the customer, if any.
	
Variable Consideration
	
If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount, the Company estimates the amount of consideration to 
which it will be entitled to in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer. The variable consideration 
is estimated at contract inception and constrained until it is highly probable that a significant reversal of revenue will 
not occur once associated uncertainties are resolved. Some contracts with the customers provide them with a right to 
return and volume rebates. The right to return and volume rebates gives rise to variable consideration.
	
The amount of variable consideration is calculated by either using the expected value or the most likely amount 
depending on which is expected to better predict the amount of variable consideration. If a contract contains more than 
one distinct good or service, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation based on relative stand-
alone selling prices. If stand-alone selling prices are not observable, the Company reasonably estimates those.
	
If a customer pays consideration before the Company transfers goods or services to the customer, a contract liability 
is recognised when the payment is received. The advance payments received plus a specified rate of return/ discount, 
at the prevailing market rates, is settled by supplying respective goods over a period of up to twenty four months under 
an agreed delivery schedule as per the terms of the respective agreements. As these are contracts that the Company 
expects and has the ability, to fullfill through delivery of a non-financial item, these are presented as advance from 
customers and are recognised as revenue as and when control of respective commodities is transferred to customers 
under the agreements. The fixed rate of return/ discount is treated as finance cost. The portion of the advance where 
either the Company does not have a unilateral right to defer settlement beyond 12 months or expects settlement within 
12 months from the balance sheet date is classified as a current liability.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
118
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
	
Recognising revenue from major business activities
	
Sale of goods
	
Revenues are recognized at a point in time when control of the goods passes to the buyer, usually upon either at the 
time of dispatch or delivery. Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received 
or receivable, net of taxes, net of returns and allowances, trade discounts, volume rebates and recovery of charges 
collected from customers like transport, packing etc.
	
Interest income
	
Interest income is recorded using the Effective interest rate method.
(i)	
Taxes
	
Current income tax
	
Tax on income for the current period is determined on the basis of taxable income and tax credits computed in 
accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act,1961 and using estimates and judgments based on the expected 
outcome of assessments/appeals and the relevant rulings in the areas of allowances and disallowances.
	
Deferred tax
	
Deferred income tax is recognized using the balance sheet approach, deferred tax is recognized on temporary 
differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for 
financial reporting purposes, except when the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an 
asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or 
loss at the time of the transaction.
	
Deferred income tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits 
and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilized.
	
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent 
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax 
asset to be utilized.
	
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when 
the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
(j)	
Employee benefits Plan:
(i) 	 Short-Term Employee Benefits
	
Employee benefits such as salaries, wages, short-term compensated absences, bonus, ex-gratia and performance-
linked rewards that are expected to be settled wholly within twelve months of rendering the service are classified 
as short-term employee benefits and are expensed in the period in which the employee renders the service.
(ii) 	 Other long-term employee benefit obligations
	
The liabilities for earned leave and sick leave are not expected to be settled wholly within 12 months after the 
end of the period in which the employees render the related service. They are therefore measured as the present 
value of expected future payments to be made in respect of services provided by employees up to the end of the 
reporting period using the projected unit credit method. The benefits are discounted using the market yields at the 
end of the reporting period that have terms approximating to the terms of the related obligation.
	
The obligations are presented as current liabilities in the balance sheet if the entity does not have an unconditional 
right to defer settlement for at least twelve months after the reporting period, regardless of when the actual 
settlement is expected to occur.
(iii) 	 Post-employment obligations
	
The Company operates the following post-employment schemes:
	
(a) 	 defined benefit plans viz gratuity,
	
(b) 	 defined contribution plans viz provident fund.
119
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
	
Defined benefit plans
	
The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit gratuity plans is the present value 
of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined 
benefit obligation is calculated annually by actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
	
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash 
outflows by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on government bonds that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related obligation.
	
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation 
and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the statement of profit and 
loss.
	
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. They are included in retained 
earnings in the statement of changes in equity and in the balance sheet.
	
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from plan amendments or curtailments are 
recognised immediately in profit or loss as past service cost.
	
Defined contribution plan
	
The Company pays provident fund contributions to publicly administered provident funds as per local regulations. 
The Company has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are 
accounted for as defined contribution plans and the contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense 
when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction 
in the future payments is available.
(iv) 	 Termination benefits
	
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Company before the normal retirement 
date, or when an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
(k)	 Foreign currency translation
	
Functional and presentation currency
	
Items included in the financial statements of the entity are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The financial statements are presented in Indian 
rupee (INR), which is entity’s functional and presentation currency.
	
Transactions and balances
	
In the financial statements of the Company, transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated 
into the functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in other currencies are translated into the functional currency at exchange rates prevailing on the reporting 
date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies and measured at historical cost or fair value 
are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the dates on which such values were determined.
	
All exchange differences are recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss of the year.
(l)	
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
	
A provision is recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past event; it is probable 
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and in respect of which a reliable estimate can be 
made.
	
A disclosure for a contingent liability is made where there is a possible obligation arising out of past event, the existence 
of which will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly 
within the control of the Company or a present obligation arising out of past event where it is either not probable that an 
outflow of resources will be required to settle or a reliable estimate of the amount cannot be made.
	
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognized when the expected benefits to be derived by the Company from a 
contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting the future obligations under the contract.
	
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, 
when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the 
passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
120
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
(m)	 Borrowing cost
	
Borrowing cost includes interest expense as per effective interest rate ("EIR") and exchange differences arising from 
foreign currency borrowings to the extent they are regarded as an adjustment to the interest cost.
	
General and specific borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of 
qualifying assets are capitalized as a part of Cost of those assets, during the period till all the activities necessary to 
prepare the Qualifying assets for its intended use are complete.
	
Other borrowing costs are recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
(n)	 Segment Reporting - Identification of Segments
	
An operating segment is a component of the Company that engages in business activities from which it may earn 
revenues and incur expenses, whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Company’s chief operating decision 
maker to make decisions for which discrete financial information is available. Based on the management approach 
as defined in Ind AS 108, the chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company’s performance and allocates 
resources based on an analysis of various performance indicators by business segments and geographic segments.
(o)	 Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
- 	
the profit attributable to owners of the Company
- 	
by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the financial year, adjusted for bonus elements 
in equity shares issued during the year
	
Diluted earnings per share
	
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take into account:
	
- the after income tax effect of interest and other financing costs associated with dilutive potential equity
	
- the weighted average number of additional equity shares that would have been outstanding assuming the conversion 
of all dilutive potential equity shares.
(p)	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, bank 
overdraft, other short-term deposits with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known 
amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
3
APPLICATION OF NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS
(A)	 Amendments to existing Standards (w.e.f. April 1, 2023)
	
The Company has adopted, with effect from April 1, 2023, the following new and revised standards and interpretations. Their 
adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in the financial statements.
1. 	
Ind AS 1- Presentation of Financials Statements - modification relating to disclosure of 'material accounting policy 
information' in place of 'significant accounting policies'.
2. 	
Ind AS 8 - Accounting Policies, Change in Accounting Estimates and Errors - modification of definition of 'accounting 
estimate' and application of changes in accounting estimates.
3. 	
Ind AS 12 - Income Taxes - The amendment clarifies application of initial recognition exemption to transactions such as 
leases and decommissioning obligations.
(B) 	 Standards notified but not yet effective
	
No new standards have been notified during the period ended March 31, 2025.
121
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
4
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND CAPITAL WORK-IN-PROGRESS
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Land Buildings
Staff 
Quarters 
Leasehold 
Improvement
Plant and 
Equipment
Furniture 
and 
Fixtures
Vehicles
Erection 
and Office 
Equipment 
Computer PPE Total
Capital 
Work in 
Progress
Total
GROSS CARRYING VALUE 
As at March 31, 2023
6.98 1,018.55 
0.20 
- 3,102.78 
19.15 
5.80 
13.32 
12.01 4,178.80 
2,059.36 
6,238.16 
Additions 
- 
15.35 
- 
168.57 
336.67 
6.65 
- 
4.57 
13.39 
545.19 
7,274.60 
7,819.80 
Disposals/ transfer
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(211.62)
(211.62)
Other Adjustments 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
As at March 31, 2024
6.98 1,033.90 
0.20 
168.57 3,439.45 
25.80 
5.80 
17.89 
25.40 4,723.99 
9,122.35 13,846.34 
Additions 
- 
18.78 
- 
- 
677.55 
3.33 
161.83 
2.23 
75.51 
939.24 10,074.80 11,014.04 
Disposals/ transfer
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(756.33)
(756.33)
Other Adjustments 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
As at March 31, 2025
6.98 1,052.68 
0.20 
168.57 4,117.00 
29.12 
167.63 
20.12 
100.91 5,663.23 18,440.81 24,104.04 
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION/ IMPAIRMENT
As at March 31, 2023
0.95 
50.62 
0.06 
- 
869.70 
14.83 
3.13 
11.08 
7.74 
958.13 
- 
958.13 
Depreciation for the year
0.15 
37.23 
0.01 
0.19 
188.76 
1.22 
1.23 
2.25 
7.31 
238.35 
- 
238.35 
Disposals
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
As at March 31, 2024
1.10 
87.85 
0.07 
0.19 1,058.46 
16.06 
4.36 
13.33 
15.05 1,196.48 
- 
1,196.48 
Depreciation for the year
0.14 
38.61 
0.01 
70.88 
215.52 
2.34 
33.06 
3.26 
44.91 
408.74 
- 
408.74 
Disposals
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
As at March 31, 2025
1.24 
126.46 
0.08 
71.08 1,273.99 
18.40 
37.42 
16.59 
59.96 1,605.22 
- 
1,605.22 
Net Carrying value as at 
March 31, 2025
5.75 
926.22 
0.12 
97.49 2,843.02 
10.72 
130.21 
3.53 
40.96 4,058.01 18,440.81 22,498.82 
Net Carrying value as at 
March 31, 2024
5.88 
946.05 
0.13 
168.37 2,380.99 
9.74 
1.44 
4.56 
10.35 3,527.51 
9,122.35 12,649.86
Note:
1.	
Property, Plant and Equipment given as collateral security against borrowings by the Company
	
Land, Buildings, Staff Quarters and Plant and Equipment given as collateral secuitry by the Company.
2. 	
Contractual Commitments Refer to Note 30 for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant 
and equipment.
3. 	
Title deeds of immovable properties are held in name of the Company. (Also refer note 40)
4. 	
No revaluation has been done during the year. 
5. 	
The depreciation expense has been included under 'Depreciation and amortisation expenses' in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
122
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Capital Work-in-Progress
Ageing of CWIP as on March 31, 2025
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Capital Work in Progress
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Project in Progress
Project 1
2,704.37 
773.22 
- 
- 
3,477.60 
Project 2
2,793.70 
4,462.63 
1,206.06 
- 
8,462.39 
Project 3
1,066.12 
1,694.47 
- 
- 
2,760.59 
Project 4
501.82 
463.04 
- 
- 
964.86 
Project 5
432.28 
- 
- 
- 
432.28 
Others 
1,820.18 
519.93 
3.00 
- 
2,343.11 
Total (A)
9,318.47 
7,913.29 
1,209.06 
- 
18,440.81 
Project temporarily suspended
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total (B)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total (A+B)
9,318.47 
7,913.29 
1,209.06 
- 
18,440.81
Note: There are no projects whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan.
Ageing of CWIP as on March 31, 2024
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Capital Work in Progress
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Project in Progress
Project 1
773.23 
- 
- 
- 
773.23 
Project 2
4,462.63 
1,206.06 
- 
- 
5,668.69 
Project 3
1,694.47 
- 
- 
- 
1,694.47 
Project 4
463.04 
- 
- 
- 
463.04 
Project 5
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Others
176.05 
346.88 
- 
- 
522.93 
Total (A)
7,569.42 
1,552.94 
- 
- 
9,122.35 
Project temporarily suspended
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total (B)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total (A+B)
7,569.42 
1,552.94 
- 
- 
9,122.35
Note: There are no projects whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan.
123
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
4
(A). RIGHT - OF - USE ASSETS
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Right-Of-Use Assets
Particulars
Building
Others*
Total
GROSS CARRYING VALUE
As at March 31, 2023
225.66 
- 
225.66 
Additions
249.31 
147.30 
396.61 
Disposals/Deletion
(225.66)
- 
(225.66)
As at March 31, 2024
249.31 
147.30 
396.61 
Additions
- 
- 
- 
Disposals/Deletion
- 
(147.30)
(147.30)
As at March 31, 2025
249.31 
- 
249.31 
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION/IMPAIRMENT
As at March 31, 2023
180.11 
- 
180.11 
Depreciation for the year
115.26 
52.77 
168.03 
Disposals/Deletion
(225.66)
- 
(225.66)
As at March 31, 2024
69.72 
52.77 
122.49 
Depreciation for the year
124.66 
27.74 
152.40 
Disposals/Deletion
- 
(80.51)
(80.51)
As at March 31, 2025
194.38 
- 
194.38 
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2025
54.94 
- 
54.94 
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2024
179.59 
94.53 
274.13
*It relates to lease agreement for accessing Research Centre.
Note	 1. 	 No revaluation has been done during the year.
	
2. 	 The depreciation expense has been included under 'Depreciation and amortisation expenses' in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
	
3. 	 Leasehold Building where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the 
Company.
4
(B). OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Intangible Assets
Total
GROSS CARRYING VALUE
As at March 31, 2023
- 
- 
Additions
- 
- 
Disposals/Deletion
- 
- 
As at March 31, 2024
- 
- 
Additions
20.00 
20.00 
Disposals/Deletion
- 
- 
As at March 31, 2025
20.00 
20.00 
ACCUMULATED AMORTISATION/IMPAIRMENT
As at March 31, 2023
- 
- 
Amortisation for the year
- 
- 
Disposals/Deletion
- 
- 
As at March 31, 2024
- 
- 
Amortisation for the year
4.09 
4.09 
Disposals/Deletion
- 
- 
As at March 31, 2025
4.09 
4.09 
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2025
15.91 
15.91 
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2024
- 
-
Note - 
1. 	
No revaluation has been done during the year.
2. 	
The amortization expense of intangible assets has been included under 'Depreciation and amortisation expenses' in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
3. 	
The Company do not have any Intangible assets under development.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
124
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
5
LOANS AND OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
LOANS
Non Current 
Loans considered good - Unsecured 
Loan to others 
Inter corporate deposits 
75.00 
75.00 
Total 
75.00 
75.00 
Current 
Loans considered good - Unsecured 
Loan to Others 
Loans to Employees 
0.48 
0.35 
Less: Allowance for Doubtful Loans 
(0.13)
(0.13)
Total 
0.35 
0.23 
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
Non Current 
Financial assets carried at amortised cost 
Security Deposits 
23.18 
23.13 
Bank Deposits with more than 12 months maturities 
94.00 
3,094.04 
Lease Deposits 
- 
63.62 
Margin Deposits1
43.07 
9.51 
Interest Accrued on Bank deposit 
1.62 
335.39 
Total 
161.87 
3,525.69 
Current 
Financial assets carried at amortised cost 
Security Deposits 
0.72 
- 
Bank Deposits with less than 12 months maturity 
- 
715.66 
Lease Deposits 
61.07 
- 
Margin Deposits1
16.69 
45.54 
Interest Accrued on Bank deposit and others 
20.96 
56.67 
99.44 
817.87
1 Fixed Deposit held as margin money under lien to tax authority, prohibition department and lien marked against secured bank 
guarantee & letter of credit. 
Loans due by Directors of the Company or any of them either severally or jointly with any other person amounted to INR NIL 
(Previous year : INR NIL)
Loans due by other officers of the Company or any of them either severally or jointly with any other person amounted to INR 0.20 
Lacs (Previous year : INR NIL)
Loans due from firms or private companies in which any Director is a partner, a Director or a member amounted to INR NIL 
(Previous year : INR NIL )
125
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
6
INVENTORIES
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
(Valued at lower of Cost and Net Realisable value) 
Raw materials 
130.96 
105.84 
Work-in-process 
237.18 
181.19 
Finished goods* 
74.12 
2.88 
Stores and spares 
8.02 
20.69 
Others: 
Steam Coal 
2.30 
3.85 
Diesel Oil 
23.77 
7.08 
Furnace Oil/LDO 
26.40 
9.99 
Packing Material 
1.86 
1.15 
Total 
504.61 
332.68
Note: Inventories have been hypothecated as security against the cash credit facility provided by the bank.
*The Company has written off Finished goods amounting to Rs. 2.86 Lacs during the year due to obsolescence.
7
TRADE RECEIVABLES
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Current
Trade Receivables1
3,123.82 
2,702.55 
3,123.82 
2,702.55 
Breakup of Security details
Considered good - Secured
- 
- 
Considered good - Unsecured
3,123.82 
2,702.55 
Significant increase in Credit Risk
10.00 
52.01 
Credit Impaired
- 
- 
3,133.82 
2,754.56 
Less: Loss Allowance (allowance for bad and doubtful debts)
Loss Allowance 
10.00 
52.01 
10.00 
52.01 
Total 
3,123.82 
2,702.55
1 Includes dues amounted to INR 3.86 Lacs (March 31, 2024: INR 188.98 Lacs) from a related party.
Terms and conditions of the above financial assets: 
A.	
The credit period ranges from 45 days to 60 days. 
B. 	
For terms and conditions with related parties, refer note 31 
Trade or Other Receivable due from Directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with any other person 
amounted to INR NIL (March 31, 2024 : INR NIL)
Trade or Other Receivable due from firms or private companies in which any Director is a partner, a Director or a member amounted 
to INR NIL (March 31, 2024 : INR NIL)
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
126
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Ageing for trade receivables from the transaction date for each of the category as at March 31, 2025
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
- 1 year
1-2 
year
2-3 
year
More than 
3 years
Total
Undisputed Trade Receivables - considered 
good
2,161.61 
962.12 
0.09 
- 
- 
- 3,123.82 
Undisputed Trade Receivables -  which have 
significant increase in credit risk
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Undisputed Trade Receivables - credit impaired
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Disputed Trade Receivables - considered good
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Disputed Trade Receivables -  which have 
significant increase in credit risk
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
10.00 
10.00 
Disputed Trade Receivables - credit impaired
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total(A)
2,161.61 
962.12 
0.09 
- 
- 
10.00 3,133.82 
Loss Allowance 
 - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
10.00 
10.00 
Total(B)
 - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
10.00 
10.00 
Total [A-B}
2,161.61 
962.12 
0.09 
- 
- 
- 3,123.82
Note : There are no unbilled recievables as at March 31, 2025.
Ageing for trade receivables from the transaction date for each of the category as at March 31, 2024
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from transaction date
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
- 1 year
1-2 
year
2-3 
year
More than 
3 years
Total
Undisputed trade receivables considered good
- 
2,702.55 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2,702.55 
Undisputed trade receivables which have 
significant increase in credit risk
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Undisputed trade receivables - credit impaired
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Disputed trade receivables considered good
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Disputed trade receivables which have 
significant increase in credit risk
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
52.01 
52.01 
Disputed trade receivables - credit impaired
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total(A)
- 
2,702.55 
- 
- 
- 
52.01 2,754.56 
Loss Allowance 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
52.01 
52.01 
Total(B)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
52.01
52.01 
Total [A-B}
- 
2,702.55 
- 
- 
- 
- 2,702.55
Note : There are no unbilled receivables as at March 31, 2024.
127
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
8
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Balances with Banks 
197.85 
84.09 
Cash on hand 
0.29 
0.58 
Deposits with banks that have an original maturity of three months or less
971.25 
562.25 
Total 
1,169.39 
646.92
9
BANK BALANCES OTHER THAN (II) ABOVE
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Bank deposits with original maturity of more than three months but less than 12 months 
- 
50.17 
Unpaid Dividend Account 
51.73 
42.03 
Balances with Banks (CSR Unspent) 
33.29 
76.56 
Unpaid Fractional Bonus Share component 
0.41 
- 
Total 
85.42 
168.76
10  OTHER ASSETS
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Non Current 
Capital Advances 
2,114.72 
757.87 
Less: Allowance for Doubtful Advances 
(18.10)
(18.10)
Others 
Payment of taxes (Net of provisions) 
30.78 
90.67 
Total 
2,127.41 
830.45 
Current 
Advances other than capital advances 
For Raw Materials & Others 
43.51 
51.29 
Others 
Prepaid expenses 
15.80 
35.91 
Balances with Government Authorities 
154.96 
- 
Total 
214.28 
87.20
Advances to Directors or other officers of the Company or any of them either severally or jointly with any other persons or advances 
to firms or private companies respectively in which any Director is a partner or a Director or a member amounted to INR NIL (March 
31, 2024 : INR NIL)
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
128
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
11 INCOME TAX
Deferred Tax
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax relates to the following:
Temporary difference in the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment
(225.76)
(205.02)
Temporary difference in the carrying amount of financial instruments at amortised cost
(0.31)
(0.31)
Relating to Right-of-Use assets & Lease Liabilities
0.76 
0.68 
Provision for employee benefits
26.58 
25.12 
Loss allowances on financial assets
2.52 
13.09 
Net Deferred Tax Assets / (Liabilities)
(196.21)
(166.44)
Movement in deferred tax liabilities/assets
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Opening balance as at beginning of period/year
(166.44)
(130.00)
Tax income/(expense) during the year recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
(28.05)
(37.51)
Tax income/(expense) during the year recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
(1.71)
1.07 
Closing balance as at end of year
(196.21)
(166.44)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deductible temporary differences
- 
- 
Unrecognised tax losses
0.38 
0.38
The Company offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and 
current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
Major Components of income tax expense for the year ended March, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are as follows:
i. Income tax recognised in profit or loss
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Current income tax charge
1,669.62 
1,950.90 
Adjustment in respect of current income tax of previous year
(21.05)
28.70 
Deferred tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
28.05 
37.51 
Income tax expense recognised in profit or loss
1,676.62 
2,017.11
ii. Income tax recognised in OCI
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Net loss/(gain) on remeasurements of defined benefit plans
(1.71)
1.07 
Income tax expense recognised in OCI
(1.71)
1.07
129
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
Reconciliation of tax expense and accounting profit multiplied by income tax rate for March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Accounting profit before income tax
6,553.79 
7,933.43 
Enacted tax rate in India
25.17%
25.17%
Income tax on accounting profits
1,649.46 
1,996.69 
Tax Effect of
Depreciation 
(27.66)
(41.20)
Expenses not allowable or considered separately under Income Tax
47.81 
(4.59)
Adjustment in respect of current income tax of previous year
(21.05)
28.70 
Due to Temporary difference
28.05 
37.51 
Tax at effective income tax rate
1,676.62 
2,017.11
12  EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
i. 	
Authorised Share Capital
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Equity Shares
Preference Shares of INR 100 each
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
At April 1, 2023 (Equity Shares Face Value INR 5 each)
2,72,00,000 
1,360.00 
30,000 
30.00 
Increase/(decrease) during the year -
- 
- 
- 
- 
-	
Shares reclassified from Unclassified to Equity (Equity 
Shares Face Value INR 5 each)
2,22,00,000 
1,110.00 
Structure before Sub-division
4,94,00,000 
2,470.00 
30,000 
30.00 
-	
Sub-division of 1 Equity share of face value INR 5 each 
into 5 Equity share of face value INR 1 each (Increase in 
shares on account of sub-division)
19,76,00,000 
- 
N.A. 
N.A. 
-	
Sub-division of 1 Preference share of face value INR 100 
each into 100 Preference share of face value INR 1 each 
(Increase in shares on account of sub-division)
N.A. 
N.A. 
29,70,000 
- 
Structure After Sub-division
24,70,00,000 
2,470.00 
30,00,000 
30.00 
-	
Preference Shares reclassified under Equity Shares 
(Face Value INR 1 each)
30,00,000 
30.00 
(30,00,000)
(30.00)
At March 31, 2024 (Equity Shares Face Value INR 1 each)
25,00,00,000 
2,500.00 
- 
- 
Increase/(decrease) during the year
- 
- 
- 
- 
At March 31, 2025 (Equity Shares Face Value INR 1 each)
25,00,00,000 
2,500.00 
- 
-
Particulars
Unclassified Shares of INR 5 each
Number
Amount
At April 1, 2023
2,22,00,000 
1,110.00 
Increase/(decrease) during the year-
- 
- 
-Reclassified under Equity Shares
(2,22,00,000)
(1,110.00)
At March 31, 2024
- 
- 
Increase/(decrease) during the year-
- 
- 
At March 31, 2025
- 
-
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
130
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
ii. 	
Issued, Subscribed and Paid up Capital
A. 	 Issued and Subscribed Capital
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Number
Amount
At April 1, 2023
1,45,28,702 
726.44 
Issued during the period
- 
- 
Increase in shares on account of sub-division (Sub-division of 1 share of face value 
INR 5 each into 5 share of face value INR 1 each)1
5,81,14,808 
- 
At March 31, 2024
7,26,43,510 
726.44 
Issued during the year
- 
- 
Bonus Shares Issued2
3,63,21,755 
363.22 
At March 31, 2025
10,89,65,265 
1089.65
B. 	 Paid up Capital
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Number
Amount
At April 1, 2023
1,45,28,702 
726.44 
Less: Calls unpaid (other than Directors)
- 
- 
Increase in shares on account of sub-division (Sub-division of 1 share of face value 
INR 5 each into 5 share of face value INR 1 each)1
5,81,14,808 
- 
At March 31, 2024
7,26,43,510 
726.44 
Less: Calls unpaid (other than Directors)
- 
- 
Bonus Shares Issued2
3,63,21,755 
363.22 
At March 31, 2025
10,89,65,265 
1,089.65 
Less: Calls unpaid (other than Directors)
- 
- 
10,89,65,265 
1089.65
1	
The Company on October 10, 2023 ("Record Date"), sub-divided/split of existing Equity Share of the Company from 1 (One) 
Equity Share having face value of INR 5 (Rupees Five only) each fully paid-up, into 5 (Five) Equity Shares having face value of 
INR 1 (Rupee One only) each fully paid-up.
2 	 The Company on August 9, 2024 ("Record Date"), issued fully paid up bonus equity shares in the ratio of 1 (one) fully paid 
Bonus Share for every 2 (two) Equity Share (1:2) held by the Equity Shareholders of the Company.
Terms/rights attached to equity shares
The Company has only one class of equity shares having par value of INR 1 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to 
one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors 
[refer note 12 (viii)] is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of Interim 
dividend.
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, 
after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the 
shareholders.
iii. 	 Shares held by holding Company
	
There is no holding Company.
iv. 	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
No of Shares 
(Face Value of INR 
1 each)
% of total holding
No of Shares 
(Face Value of INR 
1 each)
% of total holding
Pharmaceutical Business Group India Limited
5,12,40,000 
47.02%
3,41,60,000 
47.02%
Themis Medicare Limited
2,52,72,037 
23.19%
1,68,48,025 
23.19%
131
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
v. 	
Aggregate number of equity shares issued as bonus, shares issued for consideration other than cash and shares bought 
back during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date:
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
No of Shares (FV of INR 1 each)
Bonus Shares
3,63,21,755
vi. 	 Shares reserved for issue under options
	
None of the above shares are reserved for the issue under option/contract/commitments for sale of shares or disinvestment.
vii. 	 Details of shareholdings by the Promoter’s of the Company
Promoters name
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
% Change 
during the year
No of Shares 
(FV of INR 1 
each)*
% of total 
shares
No of Shares 
(FV of INR 1 
each)
% of total 
shares
Pharmaceutical Business Group [india] Ltd
5,12,40,000 
47.02%
3,41,60,000 
47.02%
0.00%
Themis Medicare Limited
2,52,72,037 
23.19%
1,68,48,025 
23.19%
0.00%
Jayshree D Patel
5,29,837 
0.49%
3,53,225 
0.49%
0.00%
Sachin Dinesh Patel
53,250 
0.05%
35,500 
0.05%
0.00%
Reena S Patel
42,000 
0.04%
28,000 
0.04%
0.00%
Dinesh Shantilal Patel
35,255 
0.03%
23,505 
0.03%
0.00%
Anay Rupen Choksi
22,852 
0.02%
15,235 
0.02%
0.00%
Nysha Rupen Choksi
22,852 
0.02%
15,235 
0.02%
0.00%
Total Promoters shares outstanding
7,72,18,083
70.86%
5,14,78,725
70.86%
Total GTBL shares outstanding
10,89,65,265
7,26,43,510
Note: *The change in number of shares is because the Company on August 9, 2024 ("Record Date"), issued fully paid up bonus 
equity shares in the ratio of 1 (one) fully paid Bonus Share for every 2 (two) Equity Share (1:2) held by the Equity Shareholders of 
the Company.
viii. Dividend
The Company follows the policy of Dividend for every financial year as may be decided by Board considering financial performance 
of the Company and other internal and external factors enumerated in the Company’s dividend policy.
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
A) 	 Declared and paid during the year:1
	
Interim Dividend for the FY 2023-24: INR 0.75 per share2
544.83 
	
Final Dividend for the year ended on March 31, 2023 : INR 1 per share2
145.29 
	
Final Dividend for the year ended on March 31, 2024 : INR 0.25 per share2
181.61 
B) 	 Proposed for approval at the annual general meeting (not recognised as a liability)
	
Final Dividend for the year ended on March 31, 2025 : INR 0.67 per share
730.07 
1	
Dividend declared and paid during the year by the Company is in compliance with section 123 of the Companies Act, 2013.
2 	 It includes unpaid dividend.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
132
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
13 OTHER EQUITY
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Capital Reserve
15.69 
15.69 
Securities Premium
- 
216.44 
Retained Earnings
23,732.85 
19,179.04 
Total
23,748.54 
19,411.17
(a) Capital Reserve
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
15.69 
15.69 
Add/(Less): Changes during the year
- 
- 
Closing balance
15.69 
15.69
Capital reserves represents cash subsidy received from the Government of Gujarat.
(b) Securities Premium
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
216.44 
216.44 
Add/(Less): Amount utilized for Bonus Issue
(216.44)
- 
Closing balance
- 
216.44
The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in Securities Premium. This is not available for 
distribution of dividend but can be utilised for issuing bonus shares.
(c) Retained Earnings
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
19,179.04 
13,956.03 
Net Profit for the year
4,877.17 
5,916.32 
Add/(Less):
Dividends
(181.67)
(690.11)
Bonus Shares issued during the period
(146.78)
- 
Items of Other Comprehensive Income directly recognised in Retained Earnings:
Remeasurement of post employment benefit obligation, net of tax
5.10 
(3.20)
Closing balance
23,732.85 
19,179.04
Note: Retained Earnings represents accumulated profits set apart by way of transfer from current year profits in Statement of 
Profit and Loss comprised in retained earnings for other than specified purpose.
133
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
14 BORROWINGS
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Non Current Borrowings 
Secured 
Term Loan from bank 
2,864.59 
- 
Vehicle Loan from bank 
124.40 
- 
Total 
2,988.99 
- 
Less: Current maturities of Long term borrowings 
Vehicle Loan From Bank 
25.39 
- 
25.39 
Total 
2,963.60 
- 
Current Borrowings 
Secured 
Current maturities of Long term borrowings 
25.39 
- 
Loans repayable on demand from banks 
- Cash Credit (Note 1) 
- 
- 
Total 
25.39 
-
A. NON CURRENT BORROWING
Note 1: Nature of Security and terms of repayment for Long Term secured Borrowings: -
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Bank Name
Terms of Repayment & Security
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
i. 	 Term Loan from bank 
	
Bank of Baroda
1. 	
The Term Loan is sanctioned and disbursed to 
finance capex facility.
2. 	
Loan is proposed to be repaid in 20 step-
up quarterly instalments after moratorium 
period of 15 months from the date of 1 st 
disbursement.
3. 	
Term Loan is secured by of :
(i) 	 exclusive charge on current and non 
current assets 
(ii) 	 personal gurantee of Directors.
4. 	
The Company has utilised the borrowings 
taken from the bank for the specific purpose 
for which it was taken.
2,864.59 
- 
ii. 	 Vehicle Loan from Bank
	
Bank of Baroda
1.	
Terms of repayment - 60 equal monthly 
installments of INR 2.95 Lakh each.
124.40 
- 
2.	
Vehicle Loan secured by way of:
(i) 	 Hypothecation of Motor Vehicle.
(ii) 	 Personal Guarantee of Director.
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
134
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
B. CURRENT BORROWINGS
Note 1: Cash credit from Bank
Cash Credit from Bank (Secured) are repayable on demand and carries interest at (EBLR + 3.70 %) i.e. 12.6 % p.a. (March 31, 2024: 
12.86 % p.a.) which is payable at the end of each month and are secured by hypothecation of book debts / receivables upto 90 
days and collateral security of Factory Premises at GIDC, Vapi, Valsad, Gujarat and Plant & Machinery. Company had discontinued 
using cash credit facility from January 23, 2025.
Note 2: Borrowings Secured against Current Assets
The Company has filed quaterly returns or statements with the banks for the sanctioned working capital facilities, which are in 
agreement with unaudited books of accounts of the Company of the respective quarters with insignificant discrepancies.
C. The Company does not have any borrowings from banks and financial institutions that are used for any other purpose other 
than the specific purpose for which it was taken at the balance sheet date.
D. There are no loans or advances in the nature of loans taken from Promoters, Directors, KMPs and their related parties (as 
defined under Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person.
Net Borrowings Reconciliation
This section sets out an analysis of net borrowing and the movements in net borrowing for each of the periods presented.
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Non-current Borrowings
2,963.60 
- 
Current Borrowings
25.39 
- 
Interest accrued
- 
- 
Net Borrowing
2,988.99 
-
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Liabilities from financing activities
Total
Non Current Borrowings
 Current Borrowings 
Net Borrowings as at March 31, 2023
- 
- 
- 
Cash Inflow
- 
26,452.67 
26,452.67 
Cash Outflow
- 
(26,474.07)
(26,474.07)
Interest Expense
- 
0.28 
0.28 
Interest Paid 
- 
(0.28)
(0.28)
Fair Value Adjustments
- 
- 
- 
Reclassification
- 
21.39 
21.39 
Net Borrowings as at March 31, 2024
- 
- 
- 
Cash Inflow
3,007.24 
26,783.14 
29,790.38 
Cash Outflow
(18.25)
(26,900.52)
(26,918.76)
Interest Expense
27.87 
0.05 
27.92 
Interest Paid 
(27.87)
(0.05)
(27.92)
Reclassification
(25.39)
142.76 
117.38 
Net Borrowings as at March 31, 2025
2,963.60 
25.39 
2,988.99
14 (A). LEASE LIABILITIES
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Non Current
Lease Liabilities
- 
122.47 
Total 
- 
122.47 
Current
Lease Liabilities
57.97 
154.37 
Total 
57.97 
154.37
135
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements during the year:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Opening Balance
276.84 
41.91 
Additions during the year
- 
367.32 
Finance cost accrued during the year
20.66 
27.25 
Reversal of lease liabilities
(73.69)
- 
Waiver in Lease Rent
(2.72)
- 
Payment of lease liabilities
(163.11)
(159.64)
Closing Balance
57.97 
276.84 
Non-current Lease Liabilities
- 
122.47 
Current Lease Liabilities
57.97 
154.37
1. The Maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in Note 34(B)
2. The effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 12%
3. Rental expense recorded for short-term leases was INR NIL for the period ended March 31, 2025 (March 31, 2024: INR 0.80 
Lacs).
4. The Company does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities as the current assets are sufficient to 
meet the obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
15 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Current 
Financial Liability at amortised cost 
Liability for expenses
280.10 
227.12 
Unpaid dividends
51.68 
41.99 
Unpaid Fractional Bonus Share component
0.41 
- 
Other Payables
96.26 
64.98 
Total 
428.44 
334.08
16 TRADE PAYABLES
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Current
Trade Payables to Micro enterprises and Small enterprises
65.36 
85.66 
Trade Payables to Creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises1
1,399.60 
905.18 
Total 
1,464.96 
990.85
1. 	 Trade or Other Payables due from related party amounted to INR NIL (March 31, 2024 : INR NIL) 
2. 	 Refer Note 37 for details relating to micro, small and medium enterprises 
3. 	 Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities: 
i. 	 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 60-days terms. 
ii. 	 For terms and conditions with related parties, refer note 31 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
136
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Ageing for trade payables from the transaction date for each of the category as at March 31, 2025
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 year
2-3 year
More than 
3 years
Total
MSME
- 
65.36
- 
- 
- 
65.36 
Others
- 
1,348.54
24.15
8.64
8.68
1,389.99 
Disputed Dues - MSME
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Disputed Dues - Others
- 
- 
- 
- 
9.60 
9.60 
Total
- 
1,413.89 
24.15 
8.64 
18.28 
1,464.96
Note : There are no unbilled dues as at March 31, 2025.
Ageing for trade payables from the transaction date for each of the category as at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 year
2-3 year
More than 
3 years
Total
MSME
- 
85.66 
- 
- 
- 
85.66 
Others
- 
875.10
10.35 
3.88 
6.26
895.58 
Disputed Dues - MSME
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Disputed Dues - Others
- 
- 
- 
- 
9.60 
9.60 
Total
- 
960.76 
10.35 
3.88 
15.86 
990.85
Note : There are no unbilled dues as at March 31, 2024.
17 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Current 
Advance from customer 
0.31 
- 
Statutory Liabilities1
20.62 
105.72 
Provision for CSR Expense
29.96 
- 
Total 
50.89 
105.72
1. Includes Goods and service tax, Contribution to Provident Fund and Contribution to Employee State Insurance Corporation 
(ESIC), etc. 
18 PROVISIONS
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Non Current 
Provision for employee benefits 
Gratuity
38.90 
40.07 
Leave encashment 
38.38 
28.82 
Total
77.28 
68.90 
Current 
Provision for employee benefits 
Gratuity
14.47 
19.52 
Leave encashment 
13.85 
11.39 
Total 
28.32 
30.91
*Refer Note 29
137
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
19 CURRENT TAX LIABILITY(NET)
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Opening balance 
- 
52.80 
Add: Current tax payable for the year 
1,669.62 
1,950.90 
Less: Taxes paid (including for earlier year adjustment) 
(1,669.62)
(2,003.70)
Total 
- 
-
20 REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Sale of products 
Finished Products
15,071.70 
16,980.81 
Other Operating Revenues 
Sale of Raw Material 
7.14 
- 
Scrap sales 
1.15 
1.38 
Total 
15,079.99 
16,982.19
*Note:
Revenue arising from contracts with customers amount to INR 14,326.07 Lacs for the period ended March 31, 2025. (March 31, 
2024: INR 16,741.73 Lacs)
2. Refer Note 32 for segment reporting on basis of geographical revenue.
21 OTHER INCOME
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Interest income- 
Income from financial instruments at amortised cost 
- On Bank Deposits including margin money1
51.78 
266.22 
- On Inter Corporate deposit 
12.07 
121.22 
- Interest On Delay Payments 
- 
8.30 
- Financial assets measured at amortized cost (Ind AS adjustment)2
7.35 
7.77 
Less: Transferred to R & D Expense (P&L) 
(0.81)
(0.98)
Gain on lease termination3
11.88 
- 
Foreign exchange fluctuation gain 
5.34 
- 
Excess provision written back 
11.34 
0.53 
Scrap sales 
67.45 
33.14 
Sale of stores and spares 
75.78 
- 
Sundry balance written back 
- 
0.37 
Miscellaneous Income 
1.07 
- 
Total 
243.24 
436.57
1	
It includes interest on deposits made with financial institution and Banks. 
2	
It includes gross Interest Income on Security deposit. 
3	
It includes reversal of Ind AS adjustment of INR 9.16 Lakh and waiver of rent of INR 2.72 Lakh 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
138
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
22 COST OF MATERIALS CONSUMED
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Raw Material Consumed 
2,449.03 
2,471.35 
Chemicals and Laboratory Consumables 
98.83 
62.86 
Packing Material Consumed 
29.86 
32.50 
Total 
2,577.72 
2,566.71
23 CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF FINISHED GOODS, STOCK-IN-TRADE AND WORK-IN-PROCESS
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Inventories as at the beginning of the year 
Work - in - process 
181.19 
304.93 
Finished goods 
2.88 
980.45 
Stock-in-trade 
- 
- 
Total 
184.07 
1,285.38 
Less : Inventories as at the end of the year 
Work - in - process 
237.18 
181.19 
Finished goods 
74.12 
2.88 
Stock-in-trade 
- 
- 
Total 
311.30 
184.07 
Net decrease / (increase) in inventories 
(127.23)
1,101.31
24 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Salaries, wages and bonus 
1,076.15 
969.90 
Contribution to provident and other funds 
54.49 
34.12 
Director Commission 
120.00 
120.00 
Gratuity Expense 
13.41 
12.01 
Staff welfare expenses 
0.06 
5.45 
Total 
1,264.11 
1,141.48
25 FINANCE COST
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Interest Expenses
- 	 Interest paid on Term loan 1
27.87 
- 
Less: Transferred to CWIP2
(19.53)
- 
-	 Interest on Cash Credit account
0.05 
0.28 
- 	 Interest cost on financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (Ind AS adjustment)3
20.66 
27.25 
Less: Transferred to R & D Expense (P&L)
(7.52)
(13.28)
- 	 Other Interest
1.75 
- 
Bank and other finance Charges
13.11 
8.66 
Total 
36.40 
22.92
1	
It includes Interest on Vehicle Loan 
2	
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 9.00 % per annum 
3	
It includes gross Interest expense on Lease Liabilities.
139
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
26 DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EXPENSE
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Depreciation on Property, Plant and Equipment 
408.74 
238.33 
Amortisation on intangible assets 
4.09 
- 
Depreciation on Right-of-Use Assets 
152.40 
168.03 
Less: Transferred to R & D Expense (P&L) 
(27.74)
(52.77)
Total 
537.49 
353.59
27 OTHER EXPENSES
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Consumption of stores and spares1
737.32 
492.73 
Power charges 
1,997.36 
1,981.80 
Fuel charges 
563.90 
545.28 
Water charges 
102.21 
125.90 
Insurance 
38.08 
49.60 
Rates and taxes 
25.91 
17.62 
Donation
1.19 
- 
Legal and professional fees 
184.64 
86.27 
Repairs and maintenance - 
Building 
50.13 
61.73 
Plant and Machinery 
126.44 
98.97 
Others 
6.37 
25.43 
Disposal Charges 
135.30 
120.20 
Central Effluent Treatment Charges 
54.40 
55.31 
Drainage Cess Charges 
26.76 
24.23 
Directors Sitting Fees 
20.65 
9.75 
Corporate Social Responsibility Expense (Refer Note 38) 
194.62 
3.05 
Vehicle Expenses 
5.10 
3.82 
Advertisement 
0.69 
1.63 
Rent for Flats2
- 
0.80 
Payments to the auditor3
9.97 
6.70 
Security Charges 
18.55 
14.95 
Testing and Analytical Charges 
14.38 
8.41 
Printing and Stationary Expenses 
19.02 
13.83 
Travelling and conveyance expenses 
25.45 
50.52 
Hire Charges
6.48 
17.02 
Postage and Telegram Charges 
0.77 
1.40 
Telephone Charges 
1.65 
1.32 
Freight and Forwarding 
20.85 
36.22 
Research and Development Expense 
342.87 
389.25 
Less: Transfer to CWIP 
(307.15)
- 
Membership & Subscription 
6.53 
5.20 
Foreign exchange fluctuation Loss 
- 
2.25 
Miscellaneous expenses 
50.50 
48.12 
Total 
4,480.95 
4,299.31
1. It includes effect of sale of stores and spares
2. It is related to short-term leases [Refer Note 14(a)]	 	
	
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
140
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
3. Payments to the auditor:
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
As auditor 
Audit Fee 
3.50 
3.50 
Tax audit fee 
0.75 
0.75 
Limited review fee 
1.50 
1.50 
In other capacity 
Other services (certification fees) 
4.22 
0.95 
Total 
9.97 
6.70
28 EARNINGS PER SHARE
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Face Value per Equity Share 
1.00 
1.00 
(a) 	 Basic and Diluted earnings per share (INR) 
4.48 
5.43 
(b) 	 Reconciliations of earnings used in calculating earnings per share 
	
Profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company used in calculating basic 
earnings per share 
	
From continuing operations 
4,877.17 
5,916.32 
	
From discontinuing operations 
- 
- 
4,877.17 
5,916.32 
(c) 	 Weighted average number of shares used as the denominator 
	
Weighted average number of equity shares used as the denominator in calculating 
basic earnings per share 
10,89,65,265 
10,89,65,265 
	
Adjustments for calculation of diluted earnings per share 
- 
- 
Weighted average number of equity shares used as the denominator in calculating 
diluted earnings per share 
10,89,65,265 
10,89,65,265
Note: The basic and diluted EPS for the previous year have been restated considering the face value of INR 1/- each in 
accordance with Ind AS 33 – “Earnings per Share” on account of sub-division of the Equity Shares of face value INR 5/- each into 
Equity Shares of face value of INR 1/- each.
29 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2025
Year ended March 31, 2024
Current
Non Current
Total
Current
Non Current
Total
Provisions
Leave Encashment
13.85 
38.38 
52.23 
11.39 
28.82 
40.21 
Gratuity
14.47 
38.90 
53.37 
19.52 
40.07 
59.60 
Employee Benefit Obligations
28.32 
77.28 
105.60 
30.91 
68.90 
99.80
(i) Other Long term employee benefits - Leave Obligations-
The leave obligations cover the Company's liability for sick and earned leave.
The amount of the provision of INR 13.85 Lacs (March 31, 2024: INR 11.39 Lacs) is presented as current, since the Company does 
not have an unconditional right to defer settlement for any of these obligations.
141
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
(ii) Post Employment obligations-
a) Defined benefit plan - Gratuity
The Company provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in 
continuous service for a period of five years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/ termination is 
the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied by number of years of 
service.
The gratuity plan is an unfunded plan.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet and the movement in the net defined benefit obligation over the period are as 
follows:
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Present value of obligation
As at March 31, 2023
53.01 
Current service cost
8.03 
Interest expense/(income)
3.98 
Total amount recognised in profit or loss
12.01 
Remeasurements
Actuarial (Gain)/Loss from change in demographic assumptions
1.49 
Actuarial (Gain)/Loss on arising from Change in Financial Assumption
(0.19)
Actuarial (Gain)/Loss on arising from Experience Adjustment
2.97 
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income
16.28 
Employer contributions
- 
Benefit payments
(9.70)
As at March 31, 2024
59.60 
Current service cost
9.11 
Interest expense/(income)
4.30 
Total amount recognised in profit or loss
13.41 
Remeasurements
Actuarial (Gain)/Loss from change in demographic assumptions
0.95 
Actuarial (Gain)/Loss on arising from Change in Financial Assumption
(0.55)
Actuarial (Gain)/Loss on arising from Experience Adjustment
(7.21)
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income
6.60 
Employer contributions
- 
Benefit payments
(12.83)
As at March 31, 2025
53.37
The significant actuarial assumptions were as follows:
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2025
Year ended March 31, 2024
Discount rate
7.04%
7.22%
Mortality Table
IALM (2012-14)
IALM (2012-14)
Salary growth rate
5.00%
5.00%
Retirement Age
58 years
58 years
Employee turnover rate
Upto 30 years- 19% 
From 31 to 44 years- 10% 
Above 45 years- 12%
Upto 30 years- 19% 
From 31 to 44 years- 10% 
Above 45 years- 12%
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
142
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 is shown below:
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Assumptions
Discount rate
Employee turnover rate
Sensitivity Level
0.5% increase
0.5% decrease
0.5% increase
0.5% decrease
March 31, 2025
Impact on defined benefit obligation
(0.99)
1.03 
1.05 
(1.02)
% Impact
-1.86%
1.93%
1.96%
-1.90%
March 31, 2024
Impact on defined benefit obligation
(1.09)
1.14 
1.16 
(1.11)
% Impact
-2.03%
2.13%
2.17%
-2.09%
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation 
as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
The following payments are expected to the defined benefit plan in future years:
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
1st following year
23.00 
31.22 
2nd following year
25.10 
17.25 
3rd following year
28.39 
22.38 
4th following year
37.74 
23.01 
5th following year
47.56 
29.60 
Total expected payments
161.78 
123.45
The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 12.45 years (March 31, 2024: 16 
years)
b) Defined contribution plans - Provident fund
The Company also has defined contribution plans. Contributions are made to provident fund in India for employees at the rate of 
12% of basic salary as per regulations. The contributions are made to registered provident fund administered by the government. 
The obligation of the Company is limited to the amount contributed and it has no further contractual nor any constructive obligation. 
The expense recognised during the period towards defined contribution plan is INR 39.84 Lacs (March 31, 2024: INR 24.08 Lacs).
30 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
A. Commitments
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not 
provided for (net of advances)
516.52 
687.58 
Total
516.52 
687.58
143
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
B. Contingent Liabilities
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
i. 	
Claim against the Company not acknowledged as debt
	
Civil cases liabilities
28.16 
28.16 
ii. 	
Guarantees excluding financial guarantees
	
Bank Guarantee given by BOB to DGVCL
290.75 
197.75 
iii. 	 Other money for which the Company is contingently liable
	
Disputed Labour Dues*
152.27 
146.97 
Total
471.17 
372.87
* Net of Settlement
The Company’s pending litigations comprise of claim against the Company and proceedings pending with Statutory and Tax 
Authorities. The Company has reviewed all its pending litigations and proceedings and has made adequate provisions, whenever 
required and disclosed the contingent liabilities, whenever applicable, in its financial statements. The Company does not expect 
the outcome of these proceedings to have a material impact on its financial position.
31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
(i) Details of related parties as per the requirements of Ind-AS 24 - Related Party Disclosures-
a) 	 Enterprises exercising control
	
Pharmaceutical Business Group (India) Limited (upto 26.12.2023)
Holding Company
b)	 Key Management Personnel
Tapas Guha Thakurata 
Chief Executive Officer (w.e.f. 05.01.2023)
Bharat A. Desai 
Chief Finance Officer (upto 31.12.2024)
Bhavik Shah 
Chief Finance Officer (w.e.f. 01.01.2025)
Rahul Soni 
Company Secretary (upto 02.08.2024)
Vineet Gawankar 
Company Secretary (w.e.f. 03.09.2024)
c) 	 Non-Executive/Independent Directors on the Board
Dinesh Shantilal Patel
Chairman (Non- Executive & Promoter)
Sachin Dinesh Patel
Non- Executive Director & Promoter
Vijay Gopi Kishan Agarwal 
Independent (upto 23.07.2024)
Kirandeep Madan 
Independent
Siddharth Yogesh Kusumgar 
Independent
Dr. Vikram Dulerai Sanghvi 
Independent (upto 05.11.2024)
Hitesh Gajaria 
Independent (w.e.f. 14.05.2024)
K. G. Ananthakrishnan 
Independent (w.e.f. 26.07.2024)
d) 	 Relatives of Key Management Personnel
Jayshree D Patel
Relative of Director
Reena S Patel
Relative of Director
Anay Rupen Choksi
Relative of Director
Nysha Rupen Choksi
Relative of Director
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
144
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
e) 	 Enterprises over which any person described in (b) is able to exercise significant influence
Pharmaceutical Business Group (India) Limited (w.e.f. 27.12.2023)
Themis Medicare Limited
Themis Distributors Private Limited
Vividh Distributors Private Limited
Vividhmargi Investment Private Limited
Themis Chemicals Private Limited (Formerly Known as Themis Lifestyle Private Limited)
Long Island Nutritionals Private Limited
Richter Themis Medicare (India) Private Limited
Dr. Themis Private Limited
Artemis Biotech Limited
(ii) Transactions with related parties for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Name
Nature of Transaction
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Themis Medicare Limited
Sale of Rifamycin-S
- 
194.06
Sale of Rifamycin-O
- 
0.17
Sale of Raw Material
8.43 
Purchase of Raw Materials
13.07 
- 
Purchase of Machinery 
127.62 
Dinesh Shantilal Patel
Director Commission
60.00
60.00
Sachin Dinesh Patel
Director Commission
60.00
60.00
Bharat A Desai
Remuneration*  
15.73
9.42
Rahul Soni
Remuneration*  
3.15
6.96
Tapas Guha
Remuneration*  
7.33
6.72
Vineet Gawankar
Remuneration*  
8.99
- 
Bhavik Shah
Remuneration*  
2.05
-
*It inculdes reimbursement also
(iii) Outstanding trade related balances
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Name
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Trade Payable
Themis Medicare Limited
- 
- 
Trade Receivable
Themis Medicare Limited
3.86 
188.98
(iv) Outstanding balances
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Name
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Remuneration Payable
Tapas Guha Thakurata 
0.64
0.59 
Bharat A. Desai
- 
0.77 
Rahul Soni
- 
0.58 
Vineet Gawankar
1.30
- 
Bhavik Shah
0.68
-
145
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
(v) Key management personnel compensation
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Short term employee benefits
157.25
143.11
Post-employment benefits
0.15 
10.00 
Long term employee benefits*
- 
- 
Directors sitting fees
20.65
9.75
Termination benefits
- 
- 
178.06 
162.86
*The amounts of Long term employee benefits cannot be seperately identified from the composite amount advised by the actuary/ 
valuer.
(vi) Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
The transactions with related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm's length transactions. Outstanding 
balances at the period/year end are unsecured and interest free and settlement occurs in cash. The Company has not issued any 
financial guarantees to the lenders on behalf of its related parties. For the period ended March 31, 2025, the Company has not 
recorded any impairment of receivables relating to amount owed by related parties (March 31, 2024: INR NIL). This assessment 
is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and market in which the related 
party operates.
32 SEGMENT REPORTING
The Company primarily operates in one business segment only i.e. Manufacturing of bulk drugs for its own and for job work basis 
for others, which is the only reportable segment. There is no other segment which requires reporting as per Ind AS 108 "Operating 
Segments".
Geographical revenues is allocated based on the location of the customer. Information regarding geographical revenue is as 
follows:
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
India
15,071.70
16,980.81
Outside India
- 
- 
Total
15,071.70
16,980.81
Revenue arising from sale of products to two customers amounted to INR 7,972.47 Lacs and INR 6,418.38 Lacs (March 31, 2024: 
two customer amounted INR 10,387.27 Lacs and INR 6,354.46 Lacs), exceeds 10% of revenue from operations of the Company.
33 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
i. Financial Instruments by Category
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Level
Carrying Amount
Fair Value
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Amortised cost
Trade Receivables
3
3,123.82 
2,702.55 
3,123.82 
2,702.55 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
3
1,169.39 
646.92 
1,169.39 
646.92 
Other Bank Balances
3
85.42 
168.76 
85.42 
168.76 
Loans
3
75.35 
75.23 
75.35 
75.23 
Other Financial Assets
3
261.31 
4,343.56 
261.31 
4,343.56 
Total
4,715.29 
7,937.01 
4,715.29 
7,937.01
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
146
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Particulars
Level
Carrying Amount
Fair Value
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Amortised cost
Borrowings
3
2,988.99 
- 
2,988.99 
- 
Lease liabilities
3
57.97 
276.84 
57.97 
276.84 
Trade Payables
3
1,464.96 
990.85 
1,464.96 
990.85 
Other financial liabilities
3
428.44 
334.08 
428.44 
334.08 
Total
4,940.36 
1,601.77 
4,940.36 
1,601.77
The management assessed that the fair value of cash and cash equivalent, trade receivables, trade payables and other current 
financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short term maturities of these instruments.
The fair values of current and non current borrowings are based on discounted cash flows using a current borrowing rate. They 
are classified as level 3 fair values in the fair value hierarchy due to the use of unobservable inputs, including own credit risk.
Fair value measurement
Level 1 -Hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices.
Level 2 - The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques 
which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant 
inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Level 3 - If one or more of the significant inputs are not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
i. Valuation technique used to determine fair value
Specific Valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
- the use of quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments
- the fair value of the remaining financial instruments is determined using discounted cash flow analysis
ii. Valuation processes
The finance department of the Company includes a team that performs the valuations of financial assets and liabilities required 
for financial reporting purposes, including level 3 fair values. This team reports directly to the chief financial officer (CFO) and the 
audit committee (AC). Discussions of valuation processes and results are held between the CFO, AC and the valuation team at 
least once every three months, in line with the Company's quarterly reporting periods.
34 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company's activity exposes it to market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. Company's overall risk management focuses on 
the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the 
Company. This note explains the sources of risk which the entity is exposed to and how the Company manages the risk.
(A) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty will not meet its obligations leading to a financial loss. Credit risk arises from cash and 
cash equivalents, financial assets carried at amortised cost and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit 
exposures to customers including outstanding receivables.
i. Credit risk management
Credit risk has always been managed by the Company through credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously 
monitoring the creditworthiness of customers to which the Company grants credit terms in the normal course of business.
The Company considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset and whether there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period. To assess whether there is a significant increase in 
credit risk the Company compares the risk of a default occurring on the asset as at the reporting date with the risk of default as at 
the date of initial recognition. It considers available reasonable and supportive forwarding-looking information.
(Amount in INR Lacs)
147
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
In general, it is presumed that credit risk has significantly increased since initial recognition if the payments are more than 30 days 
past due.
A default on a financial asset is when the counterparty fails to make contractual payments of when they fall due. This definition 
of default is determined by considering the business environment in which entity operates and other macro-economic factors.
ii. Provision for expected credit losses
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of loss allowance on Trade receivables
As a practical expedient, the Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio of its trade 
receivables. The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the trade receivables 
and is adjusted for forward-looking estimates. At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are updated and 
changes in the forward-looking estimates are analyzed.
iii. Reconciliation of loss allowance provision - Trade receivables
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Loss allowance on April 1, 2023
52.01 
Changes in loss allowance
- 
Loss allowance on March 31, 2024
52.01 
Changes in loss allowance
(42.01)
Loss allowance on March 31, 2025
10.00
(B) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become due. The Company 
manages its liquidity risk by ensuring, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due. 
The Company consistently generated sufficient cash flows from operations to meet its financial obligations. Also, the Company 
has unutilized credit limits with banks.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Company's liquidity position (comprising the undrawn borrowing facilities) and 
cash and cash equivalents on the basis of expected cash flows. In addition, the Company’s liquidity management policy involves 
projecting cash flows and considering the level of liquid assets necessary to meet these, monitoring balance sheet liquidity ratios 
against internal and external regulatory requirements.
Maturities of financial liabilities
The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which 
the Company can be required to pay. In the table below, borrowings includes principal cash flows only.
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
Carrying 
Amount
Contractual cash flows (Undiscounted)
On 
Demand
< 1 Year
1-3 Years
3-5 Years
> 5 Years
Total
March 31, 2025
Non derivative financial Liabilities
Borrowings
2,988.99 
- 
25.39 
2,963.60 
- 
- 
2,988.99 
Lease liabilities
57.97 
- 
59.29 
- 
- 
- 
59.29 
Trade payables
1,464.96 
- 
1,464.96 
- 
- 
- 
1,464.96 
Other financial liabilities
428.44 
- 
428.44 
- 
- 
- 
428.44 
Derivative financial Liabilities
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total financial liabilities
4,940.36 
- 
1,978.08 
2,963.60 
- 
- 
4,941.68 
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
148
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Particulars
Carrying 
Amount
Contractual cash flows (Undiscounted)
On 
Demand
< 1 Year
1-3 Years
3-5 Years
> 5 Years
Total
March 31, 2024
Non derivative financial Liabilities
Borrowings
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Lease liabilities
276.84 
- 
176.99 
129.97 
- 
- 
306.96 
Trade payables
990.85 
- 
990.85 
- 
- 
- 
990.85 
Other financial liabilities
334.08 
- 
334.08 
- 
- 
- 
334.08 
Derivative financial Liabilities
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total financial liabilities
1,601.77 
- 
1,501.92 
129.97 
- 
- 
1,631.89
(C) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of change in market 
prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk such as commodity 
risk.
(i) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk of impact related to fair value or future cash flows of an exposure in foreign currency, which 
fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates 
relates primarily to the external commercial borrowings and export receivables.
The Company evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from foreign currency transactions and follows established risk 
management policies and standard operating procedures to mitigate the risks.
(ii) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk can be either fair value interest rate risk or cash flow interest rate risk. Fair value interest rate risk is the risk of 
changes in fair values of fixed interest bearing instruments because of fluctuations in the interest rates. Cash flow interest rate 
risk is the risk that the future cash flows of floating interest bearing instruments will fluctuate because of fluctuations in the 
interest rates.
However, during the years presented in these financial statements, the Company had primarily borrowed funds under fixed interest 
rate arrangements with banks and financial institutions and therefore the Company is not exposed to interest rate risk.
(iii) Commodity Price risk
The Company is not exposed to other price risk during the years presented in these financial statements.
35 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
For the purpose of the Company's capital management, capital includes issued equity capital, share premium and all other equity 
reserves attributable to the equity holders of the Company. The primary objective of the Company's capital management is to 
maximise the shareholder value.
The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the 
requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the dividend payment 
to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Company monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is 
net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The Company includes within debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, trade and 
other payables, less cash and cash equivalents.
149
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Long term borrowings
2,988.99 
- 
Short term borrowings
25.39 
- 
Trade payables
1,464.96 
990.85 
Other Financial Liabilities 
428.44 
334.08 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
(1,169.39)
(646.92)
Less: Other Bank Balance
(85.42)
(168.76)
Net Debt
663.98 
509.25 
Equity Share capital
1,089.65 
726.44 
Other Equity
23,748.54 
19,411.17 
Total Capital
24,838.20 
20,137.60 
Capital and net debt
25,502.18 
20,646.85 
Gearing ratio
2.60 
2.47
36 ASSETS GIVEN AS COLLATERAL SECURITY AGAINST BORROWINGS
The carrying amount of assets given as collateral security for current and non current borrowings are:
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
NON CURRENT ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment *
3,775.10 
3,333.05 
Total non current assets
3,775.10 
3,333.05
* It includes Land, Buildings, Staff Quarters and Plant and Equipment
37 DETAILS OF DUES TO MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISES AS DEFINED UNDER MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES 
DEVELOPMENT ACT, 2006 (MSMED ACT, 2006)
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
i)	
Principal amount and interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier covered 
under MSMED Act:
	
Principal*
65.36
85.66 
	
Interest
- 
- 
ii) 	
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section16, of the MSMED 
Act, 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the 
appointed day during each accounting year.
- 
- 
iii) 	 The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
(which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without 
adding the interest specified under MSMED Act.
- 
- 
iv) 	 The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting 
year
- 
- 
v) 	
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding 
years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the 
small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure 
under section 23 of the MSMED Act, 2006
- 
-
*Note- The Company makes payment to all the Parties (Including MSMEs) as per the payment terms negotiated with each party..
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
150
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
38 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
As per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, a CSR committee has been formed by the Company. The proposed areas of CSR 
activities are promoting health care, promoting education and rural development activities. The expenditure incurred during the 
year on these activities are as specified in schedule VII on the Companies Act, 2013.
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Gross obligation for the current financial year
144.18 
118.54 
Total of previous years shortfall
195.10 
79.61 
(a) 	 Gross amount
339.27 
198.15 
(b) 	 Amount spent during the year on:
	
Ongoing Projects
	
(i) 	 Healthcare
100.00 
3.05 
	
(ii) 	 Education
60.79 
- 
	
(iii) 	 Infrastructure / Cultural / Environment
- 
- 
	
(iv) 	 Others
1.00 
- 
	
Other than Ongoing Projects
	
(i) 	 Healthcare
- 
- 
	
(ii) 	 Education
3.33 
- 
	
(iii) 	 Infrastructure / Cultural / Environment
- 
- 
	
(iv) 	 Others
- 
- 
Total
165.12 
3.05 
(c) 	 Shortfall at the end of year
140.84 
118.54 
(d) 	 Total of previous years shortfall
33.30 
76.56
(e) 	 Reason for Shortfall in:
(i) 	 FY 2024-25
	
The Company has not failed to spent the 2% of the of the average net profit as per section 135(5).
	
The Management of the Company identified the project and under negotiation after which the management had finalized 
the project at the end of the financial year. Therefore, As on 31.03.2025, an amount of INR 1,40,84,474/- remained to 
be spent on CSR activities. The Unspent CSR amount was allocated to the project and transferred to the unspent CSR 
account as prescribed under Companies Act, 2013. Total of Previous years shortfall of INR 33,30,415/- pertains to 
unspent CSR amount of F.Y. 2023-24. The same is lying in the unspent CSR account as on 31.03.2025.
(ii) 	 FY 2023-24
	
The Company has not failed to spent the 2% of the of the average net profit as per section 135(5).
	
The Management of the Company identified the project and under negotiation after which the management had finalized 
the project at the end of the financial year. Therefore, As on 31.03.2024, an amount of INR 1,18,53,578/- remained to 
be spent on CSR activities. The Unspent CSR amount was allocated to the project and transferred to the unspent CSR 
account as prescribed under Companies Act, 2013. Total of Previous years shortfall of INR 76,55,554/- pertains to 
unspent CSR amount of F.Y. 2022-23. The same is lying in the unspent CSR account as on 31.03.2024.
(f)	
Details of related party transactions, e.g., contribution to a trust controlled by the Company in relation to CSR expenditure as 
per relevant Accounting Standard - INR NIL
(g)	 Where a provision is made with respect to a liability incurred by entering into a contractual obligation, the movements in the 
provision during the year shall be shown separately - N.A.
151
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
(Amount in INR Lacs)
(h) 	 Any amount remaining unspent transferred to
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
(i) 	 Ongoing project : Special account in compliance with the provision of section 
135(6)
174.14 
195.10
(ii) 	 Other than ongoing project : A Fund specified in Schedule VII to the 
Companies Act within a period of six months of the expiry of the financial year 
in compliance with second proviso to section 135(5)
-
-
39  ACCOUNTING RATIOS
(Amount in INR Lacs)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
FY 
2024-2025
FY 
2023-2024
Note 
No.*
Change
1
Current Ratio (in times)
Current Asset
Current Liabilities
2.53 
2.94 
-14.11%
2
Debt-Equity Ratio (in times) Total Debt
Equity
0.12 
- 
1
100.00%
3
Debt Service Coverage 
Ratio (in times)
Earnings Available for 
Debt Service
Debt Service
26.05 
52.06 
2
-49.95%
4
Return on Equity Ratio (in 
%)
PAT
Avg. Shareholders 
Equity
21.69%
33.76%
3
-35.75%
5
Inventory turnover ratio (in 
times)
Net Sales
Avg. Inventory
36.02
18.93
4
90.32%
6
Trade Receivables turnover 
ratio (in times)
Net Sales
Avg. Trade 
Receivables
5.18
7.56
5
-31.52%
7
Trade payables turnover 
ratio (in times)
Net Purchases
Avg.Trade 
payables
2.10
2.64
-20.45%
8
Net capital turnover ratio (in 
times)
Net Sales
Working Capital
4.80
5.41
-11.23%
9
Net profit ratio (in %)
Net Profit
Net Sales
32.34%
34.84%
-7.17%
10
Return on Capital employed 
(in %)
EBIT
Capital Employed
26.53%
39.51%
6
-32.85%
11
Return on investment (in %) Total Comprehensive 
Income
Free Equity
19.66%
29.36%
7
-33.06%
*In respect of aforesaid mentioned ratios, the reason for significant change (25% or more) in FY 2024-25 in comparison to FY 
2023-24 is :
1	
Borrowing were made during the year (Previous year : NIL)
2	
Decrease in Earning available for debt service during current year and increase in interest and principal payment as compared 
to previous year.
3	
Increase in equity share capital due to issue of bonus share.
4	
Due to decrease in average inventory compare to previous year.
5	
Increase in trade receivable due to change in payment terms.
6	
Decrease in revenue from operation and increased in capital employed due to bonus share.
7	
Total Comprehensive income decreased due to decrease in revenue and increase in Free Equity.
Definitions:
(a)	Earning for available for debt service = Net Profit after taxes + Non-cash operating expenses like depreciation and other 
amortisations + Interest + other adjustments like loss on sale of Fixed assets etc.
(b) 	Debt service = Interest & Lease Payments + Principal Repayments
(c) 	Average inventory = (Opening inventory balance + Closing inventory balance) / 2
Gujarat Themis Biosyn Limited
152
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
(d)	Net credit sales = Net credit sales consist of gross credit sales minus sales return
(e)	Average trade receivables = (Opening trade receivables balance + Closing trade receivables balance) / 2
(f)	 Net credit purchases = Net credit purchases consist of gross credit purchases minus purchase return
(g) 	Average trade payables = (Opening trade payables balance + Closing trade payables balance) / 2
(h) 	Working capital = Current assets - Current liabilities. 
(i) 	 Earning before interest and taxes = Profit before exceptional items and tax + Finance costs - Other Income
(j)	 Capital Employed = Tangible Net Worth + Total Debt + Deferred Tax Liability
(k) 	Return on Investment = Total Comprehensive Income / Free Equity
40 TITLE DEEDS OF IMMOVABLE PROPERTY NOT HELD IN THE NAME OF THE COMPANY
The Company does not possess any immovable property (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee) whose title deeds are not held in the name of the Company during the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
41 FAIR VALUATION OF INVESTMENT PROPERTY
The Company shall disclose as to whether the fair value of investment property (as measured for disclosure purposes in the 
financial statements) is based on the valuation by a registered valuer as defined under rule 2 of Companies (Registered Valuers 
and Valuation) Rules, 2017. Since, the Company does not have any investment property during any reporting period, the said 
disclosure is not applicable.
42 DETAILS OF BENAMI PROPERTY HELD
No proceedings have been initiated or pending against the Company for holding any benami property under the Benami 
Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and rules made thereunder.
43 WILFUL DEFAULTER
The Company has not been declared as a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
44 DISCLOSURE OF TRANSACTIONS WITH STRUCK OFF COMPANIES
The Company did not have any material transactions with companies struck off under Section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 or 
Section 560 of Companies Act, 1956 during the financial year.
45 REGISTRATION OR SATISFACTION OF CHARGES
There are no charges or satisfaction yet to be registered with Registrar of Companies beyond the statutory period.
46 COMPLIANCE WITH NUMBER OF LAYERS OF COMPANIES
The Company has complied with the requirements of the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
47 COMPLIANCE WITH APPROVED SCHEME(S) OF ARRANGEMENTS
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on November 18, 2024, approved the Scheme of Amalgamation (“Scheme”) between 
the Company and Themis Medicare Limited (‘TML’) and their respective shareholders and creditors pursuant to section 230 to 
232 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws. The appointed date for the amalgamation shall be April 1, 2025, or 
such other date as approved by the Boards of the Parties. Upon the Scheme becoming effective, TML will issue and allot 118 
equity shares of the face value of Re. 1 each, credited as fully paid-up, for every 100 equity shares of the face value of Re. 1 each, 
fully paid-up, held by shareholders of the Company as on the record date as per the Scheme and the equity shares held by TML in 
the Company shall stand cancelled. The Scheme is subject to necessary approvals from the SEBI, NCLT, requisite statutory and 
regulatory authorities and the respective shareholders and creditors under applicable laws.
153
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Financial Statements
48 UTILISATION OF BORROWED FUNDS AND SHARE PREMIUM
A. 	
The Company have not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
(a) 	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
(b) 	 provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
B. 	
The Company have not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
(a) 	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
49 DETAILS OF CRYPTO CURRENCY OR VIRTUAL CURRENCY
The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual currency.
50 UNDISCLOSED INCOME
During the year, the Company has not surrendered or disclosed any income in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 
1961 (such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961). Accordingly, there are no transaction 
which are not recorded in the books of accounts.
51 Previous year figures have been regrouped/ rearranged, wherever considered necessary to conform to current year’s 
classification.
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No: 103429W
 Sd/-
Sachin D. Patel
Director
DIN: 00033353
 Sd/-
Dinesh S. Patel
Chairman
DIN: 00033273
 Sd/-
Tapas Guha Thakurata
Chief Executive Officer
 Sd/-
CA Amit Maheshwari
Partner
Membership No: 428706
UDIN: 254287 06BMIO YK3264
 Sd/-
Vineet Gawankar
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A55504
 Sd/-
Bhavik Shah
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 20, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 20, 2025
Material Accounting Policies and Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements	
       1-51
155
44th Annual Report - 2024-25
Statutory Reports
GUJARAT THEMIS BIOSYN LTD.
CIN: L24230GJ1981PLC004878
Regd. Office: Plot No. 69-C, GIDC Industrial Estate, Vapi - 396195, District - Valsad, Gujarat.
Website: www.gtbl.in; E-mail: cfoassist@themismedicare.com 
Proxy Form for 44th Annual General Meeting
[Pursuant to Section 105(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 19(3) of the Companies
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014]
Name of the Member(s):...........................................................................................................................................................................
Registered 
address:..................................................................................................................................................................................
E-mail Id: ..............................................Folio No. / Client ID No.: ..................................................DP ID No...........................................
I / We, being the member(s) of ............................................................... Shares of GUJARAT THEMIS BIOSYN LTD., hereby appoint
1.Name: ............................................................................................ E-mail Id: .......................................................................................
Address:............................................................................................ Signature: ............................................................... or failing him
2.Name: ............................................................................................ E-mail Id: .......................................................................................
Address:............................................................................................ Signature: ............................................................... or failing him
3.Name: ............................................................................................ E-mail Id: .......................................................................................
Address:............................................................................................ Signature: ............................................................... or failing him
as my / our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me / us and on my / our behalf at the 44th Annual General Meeting of the 
Company to be held on Friday, 12th September, 2025 at 12:00 noon at Plot No. 69-A, GIDC Industrial Estate, Vapi - 396195, Dist. 
Valsad, Gujarat and at any adjournment thereof in respect of such resolutions as are indicated below:
Item 
No.
Description of Resolution
Vote (Optional see Note 2) (Please 
mention no. of shares)
For
Against
Abstain
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial Statements of the Company 
for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025 together with Reports of the Board of 
Directors and Auditors thereon. 
2
To appoint a Director in place of Dr. Dinesh S. Patel (DIN: 00033273) who retires by 
rotation and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
3
 To declare Dividend on equity shares for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025.
SPECIAL BUSINESS
4
Ratification of Remuneration of Cost Auditor for financial year 2025-26.
5
Appointment of Secretarial Auditor.
6
Appointment and re-designation of Dr. Sachin D. Patel (DIN: 00033353) as Managing 
Director of the Company.
7
Payment of Commission to Dr. Dinesh S. Patel (DIN: 00033273) Non-Executive 
Chairman.
8
Payment of Commission to Dr. Sachin D. Patel (DIN: 00033353).
9
Appointment of Mr. Nihar Ajay Parikh (DIN: 02475787) as an Independent Director 
of the Company.
10
Payment of Commission to Independent Directors.
Signed this ______________________ day of ____________________ 2025.
_________________________	 	
 ______________________________
Signature of the member 	 	
Signature of the proxy holder(s)
Notes:
1.	
This form, in order to be effective, should be duly stamped, completed, signed and deposited at the 
registered office of the Company, not less than 48 hours before the Annual General Meeting (on or 
before 10th September, 2025 at 12.00 noon)
2.	
It is optional to indicate your preference. If you leave the ‘for’, ‘against’ or ‘abstain’ column blank against 
any or all of the resolutions, your proxy will be entitled to vote in the manner as he / she may deem 
appropriate.
AFFIX Re. 1 
Revenue Stamp 
Signature(s)
GUJARAT THEMIS BIOSYN LTD.
CIN: L24230GJ1981PLC004878
Regd. Office: 69/C, GIDC Industrial Estate, Vapi – 396 195, Dist. Valsad, Gujarat, India.
Website: www.gtbl.in: E-mail: cfoassist@themismedicare.com
Attendance Slip for 44th Annual General Meeting
Name of Shareholder: ________________________________________________________________________________________
Reg. Folio No. / Client ID No.: _________________________________________________________________________________
 No. of Shares held : __________________________________________________________________________________________
I hereby record my presence at the 44th Annual General Meeting of the Company on Friday, 12th September, 2025 at 12:00 Noon 
at  69/A, GIDC Industrial Estate, Vapi - 396195, Dist. Valsad, Gujarat..
First / Sole holder / Proxy
Second holder / Proxy
 Third holder / Proxy
Fourth holder / Proxy
           
Note:
1.		
Please fill this Attendance Slip and hand it over at the meeting hall. 
2.		
Shareholder / Proxy Holder / Authorised Representatives are requested to show their Photo ID proof for attending the 
meeting. Joint shareholders may obtain additional attendance slip on request.
3.		
Authorised Representatives of Corporate members shall produce proper authorisation issued in their favour. 
4.		
This Attendance Slip is valid only in case shares are held as on the cut-off date i.e. 5th September, 2025.
NOTES
