 
 
 
 
16th May, 2025 
 
The National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor 
Plot No. C/1, G Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (E) 
Mumbai- 400 051 
 
 
NSE Symbol : HAVELLS 
BSE Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers 
Dalal Street 
Mumbai- 400 001 
 
Scrip Code : 517354 
 
Sub: Integrated Annual Report for FY 2024-25 alongwith the Notice of AGM 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
Please find enclosed herewith the 42nd Annual Report of Havells India Limited (‘the 
Company’) for the financial year 2024-25 as the 7th Integrated Report of the Company 
alongwith the Notice convening the 42nd Annual General Meeting scheduled to be held on 
the 17th day of June, 2025. 
 
Please note that the Integrated Report also contains the Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report (BRSR) alongwith the Report on Reasonable Assurance undertaken on 
BRSR Core.  
This may be taken as due compliance of relevant provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
 
Kindly acknowledge receipt.  
 
Thanking you. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
for Havells India Limited 
 
 
 
(Sanjay Kumar Gupta) 
Company Secretary 
 
Encl: As above 
SANJAY 
KUMAR 
GUPTA
Digitally signed by 
SANJAY KUMAR 
GUPTA 
Date: 2025.05.16 
14:39:44 +05'30'
NOTICE is hereby given that the 42nd (Forty Second) Annual 
General Meeting of Havells India Limited will be held on 17th 
June, 2025, Tuesday at 11:00 am through Video Conferencing 
(VC) or Other Audio Visual Means (OAVM) for which purpose 
the Registered Office of the Company situated at 904, 9th Floor, 
Surya Kiran Building, K.G. Marg, Connaught Place, New Delhi 
– 110001 shall be deemed as the venue for the Meeting and 
the proceedings of the AGM shall be deemed to be made 
thereat, to transact the following businesses: 
ORDINARY BUSINESS 
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial 
Statements of the Company for the Financial Year ended 
31st March, 2025, the Reports of the Board of Directors 
and Auditors thereon and the Audited Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Company for the Financial 
Year ended 31st March, 2025 and the Report of Auditors 
thereon. 
2.	
To confirm the payment of Interim Dividend of ` 4.00 per 
equity share of ` 1/- each already paid during the year as 
Interim Dividend for the Financial Year 2024-25. 
3.	
To declare a Final Dividend of ` 6.00 per equity share of 
` 1/- each, for the Financial Year 2024-25.
4.	
To appoint a Director in place of Shri Siddhartha Pandit 
(DIN: 03562264), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. 
5.	
To appoint a Director in place of Shri Anil Rai Gupta 
(DIN: 00011892), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. 
SPECIAL BUSINESS 
6.	
Ratification of Cost Auditor’s Remuneration
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as an ORDINARY 
RESOLUTION:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
148 and all other applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (including any statutory modification(s), enactment(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force), the 
Cost Auditors appointed by the Board of Directors of the 
NOTICE
HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED
Regd. Office: 904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building, K.G. Marg, Connaught Place, New Delhi - 110001
Corp. Office: QRG Towers, 2D, Sector – 126, Expressway, Noida (U.P.) – 201304
Tel. No.: 0120-3331000, Fax No.: 0120-3332000, E-mail: investors@havells.com
Website: www.havells.com, CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304
Company, to conduct the audit of the cost records of the 
Company for the Financial Year ending 31st March, 2026, 
be paid the remuneration as set out in the Statement 
annexed to the Notice convening this Meeting.”
7.	
Re-appointment 
of 
Shri 
Siddhartha 
Pandit 
(DIN: 03562264) as the Whole-time Director for another 
term of 3 years
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as an ORDINARY 
RESOLUTION: 
	
“RESOLVED THAT in line with the Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy of Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and Other Employees of the Company and 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 197, 198, 203 
read with Schedule V and other applicable provisions, if 
any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) (including 
any statutory modification(s), enactment(s) or re-
enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force), consent 
be and is hereby accorded for the re-appointment of Shri 
Siddhartha Pandit (DIN: 03562264) as a Whole-time 
Director of the Company for another term of 3 (Three) 
years from 29th May, 2025 to 28th May, 2028 on the 
terms and conditions including remuneration (and also 
including the remuneration to be paid in the event of loss 
or inadequacy of profits in any financial year during the 
aforesaid period, subject to the requirements of Schedule 
V to the Act) as enumerated herein below:
1.	 Period 
From 29th May, 2025 
to 28th May, 2028
2.	 Remuneration
	
Total Salary, perquisites and 
allowances including benefits 
& incentives towards P.F., 
NPS, Personal Accident and 
Term Life Insurance, Mediclaim 
Coverage, Executive Health 
check-up, Leave Encashment 
etc. as per Company’s Policy
` 1.37 crores per 
annum which may 
go upto ` 2.25 
crores per annum 
over a period of 
3 years.
3.	 ESOP/ ESPS
As 
per 
policies 
and rules of the 
Company.
Havells India Limited
1
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of 
the Company or any duly constituted Committee of the 
Board be and is hereby authorised to alter or vary any 
or all of the terms, conditions of Shri Siddhartha Pandit 
as approved within the limits specified in Schedule V to 
the Act, without any further reference to the Company in 
General Meeting.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of giving 
effect to the foregoing Resolution, Shri Sanjay Kumar 
Gupta, Company Secretary of the Company, be and is 
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters 
and things, as may be considered necessary, proper or 
desirable in the said regard including filing of returns with 
any authority.”
8.	
To appoint M/s MZ & Associates, Practicing Company 
Secretaries (Firm Registration No. P2014DE040000) as 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company for a period of 5 years
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as an ORDINARY 
RESOLUTION: 
	
“RESOLVED THAT in accordance with the provisions 
of Regulation 24A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and 
Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 
9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 (including any 
statutory modification(s), enactment(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof, for the time being in force), M/s MZ & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries (Firm Registration No. 
P2014DE040000) be and are hereby appointed as the 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company for a period of 5 (Five) 
years beginning from FY 2025-26, at a remuneration of 
` 3 lakhs (Rupees Three Lakhs only) in respect of 
Secretarial Audit to be undertaken for the FY 2025-26, 
payable in one or more instalments plus GST as applicable, 
and reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses incurred. 
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors/ Audit 
Committee of the Company be and is hereby authorised to 
fix the remuneration for the rest of tenure of the appointment 
and also authorized to do all such acts, deeds and things 
and execute all such documents, instruments and writings 
as may be required and to delegate all or any of its 
powers herein conferred to any Committee of Directors or 
Director(s), to give effect to the aforesaid Resolution.”
9.	
To approve the appointment of Shri Abhinav Rai Gupta 
(relative of Director) to Office or place of profit in the 
Company
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s) the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
188(1)(f) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies 
(Meeting of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014 and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 
including any statutory modification(s) or re- enactment 
thereof for the time being in force and as may be enacted 
from time to time, and pursuant to the recommendations 
of the Audit Committee, the Members hereby consent 
to the appointment of Shri Abhinav Rai Gupta (relative 
of Shri Anil Rai Gupta, Chairman and Managing Director 
of the Company), as Vice President, to hold an office or 
place of profit in the Company, for a period of 3 years 
effective from the date of approval of the Members, on 
an annual remuneration of ` 1 crore per annum inclusive 
of all benefits, which shall remain unchanged during the 
said period.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of giving 
effect to the foregoing Resolution, Shri Sanjay Kumar 
Gupta, Company Secretary of the Company, be and is 
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters 
and things, as may be considered necessary, proper or 
desirable in the said regard.”
By Order of the Board 
For Havells India Limited 
Sanjay Kumar Gupta 
Company Secretary 
Noida, April 22, 2025
Membership No. F3348
Registered Office: 
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building 
K.G. Marg, Connaught Place, New Delhi – 110001 
CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304
Website: www.havells.com
Email: investors@havells.com
NOTES 
1.	
An Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 in respect of the Special Businesses 
specified above is annexed hereto. Further, additional 
information as required under Listing Regulations and 
Circulars issued thereunder are also annexed.
2.	
Pursuant to the Circular Nos. 14/2020, 17/2020, 
20/2020, 02/2021, 19/2021, 21/2021, 03/2022 dated 8th 
April 2020, 13th April 2020, 5th May, 2020, 13th January, 
2021, 8th December, 2021, 14th December, 2021, 5th 
May, 2022 followed by Circular Nos. 10/2022, 11/2022 
dated 28th December, 2022, Circular No. 09/2023 
dated 25th September, 2023 and Circular No. 09/2024 
dated 19th September, 2024 issued by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs (hereinafter collectively referred to as 
“MCA Circulars”) and ‘SEBI’ Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/
CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 dated 3rd October, 2024 
(hereinafter referred to as “SEBI Circular”) physical 
attendance of the Members to the AGM venue is not 
required and Annual General Meeting (AGM) be held 
through Video Conferencing (VC) or Other Audio Visual 
Means (OAVM). Hence, Members can attend and 
participate in the ensuing AGM through VC/ OAVM. 
Havells India Limited
2
3.	
Since this AGM is being held through VC/ OAVM pursuant 
to the MCA Circulars, physical attendance of members has 
been dispensed with, accordingly, the route map, the facility 
to appoint proxy to attend and cast vote for the members 
is not available for this AGM and hence the Proxy Form 
and Attendance Slip are not Annexed hereto. However, 
the Body Corporates are entitled to appoint authorised 
representatives to attend the AGM through VC/ OAVM and 
participate thereat and cast their votes through e-Voting. 
4.	
Corporate Members are encouraged to attend the 
AGM through their Authorized Representatives. They 
are requested to send by email, a certified copy of the 
Board Resolution/ Power of Attorney authorizing their 
representatives to attend and vote on their behalf in the 
Meeting at investors@havells.com.
5.	
The Members can join the AGM in the VC/ OAVM 
mode 15 minutes before and after the scheduled time 
of the commencement of the Meeting by following 
the procedure mentioned in the Notice. The facility 
of participation at the AGM through VC/ OAVM will be 
made available for 1000 members on first come first 
served basis. However, this number does not include 
the large Shareholders i.e. Shareholders holding 2% or 
more shareholding, Promoters, Institutional Investors, 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, the Chairpersons 
of the Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and Stakeholders Relationship/ Grievance 
Redressal Committee, Auditors etc. who are allowed to 
attend the AGM without restriction on account of first 
come first served basis. 
6.	
The attendance of the Members attending the AGM 
through VC/ OAVM will be counted for the purpose 
of reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
7.	
In compliance with the above circulars, electronic copies 
of the Notice of the AGM alongwith the Integrated Annual 
Report for the Financial Year 2024-25 is being sent to all 
the shareholders whose email addresses are registered/ 
available with the Company/ Depository Participants as 
on the cut-off date of 2nd May, 2025, Friday. The Notice 
has also been uploaded on the website of the Company 
in the Investor Relations Section under Financials in the 
Annual Reports tab. The complete Integrated Annual 
Report is also available in the same section. The Notice 
can also be accessed from the websites of the Stock 
Exchanges i.e. BSE Ltd. and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.
com respectively and the AGM Notice is also available on 
the website of NSDL (agency for providing the Remote 
e-Voting facility) i.e. www.evoting.nsdl.com. 
	
Further, in terms of SEBI Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 for those shareholders whose email id is not 
registered, a letter providing the web-link, including the 
exact path where complete details of the Annual Report 
are available, will be sent at their registered address.
	
However, the Shareholders of the Company may request 
physical copy of the Notice and Integrated Annual Report 
from the Company by sending a request at investors@
havells.com, in case they wish to obtain the same.
8.	
This AGM has been convened through VC/ OAVM in 
compliance with applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with the MCA Circular No. 14/2020 dated 
08th April, 2020 and MCA Circular No. 17/2020 dated 13th 
April, 2020, MCA Circular No. 20/2020 dated 05th May, 
2020, MCA Circular No. 2/2021 dated 13th January, 2021, 
MCA Circular No. 19/2021 dated 08th December, 2021, 
MCA Circular No. 21/2021 dated 14th December, 2021, 
MCA Circular No. 03/2022 dated 05th May, 2022, MCA 
Circular Nos. 10/2022, 11/2022 dated 28th December, 
2022, followed by MCA Circular Nos. 09/2023 dated 
25th September, 2023 and 09/2024 dated 19th September, 
2024.
9.	
The recorded transcript of the forthcoming AGM on 17th 
June, 2025 shall also be made available on the website of 
the Company www.havells.com in the Investor Relations 
Section, as soon as possible after the Meeting is over. 
10.	 All documents referred to in the accompanying Notice and 
the Explanatory Statement can be obtained for inspection 
by writing to the Company at its email ID investors@
havells.com till the date of AGM. Further, Shareholders 
may also write to the Company at its mailing id investors@
havells.com for inspection of any statutory register/ 
documents required to be placed at the time of AGM of 
the Company.
11.	 Shareholders seeking any information with regard to 
accounts are requested to write to the Company at least 
10 days before the meeting so that the information is 
made available by the management at the day of the 
meeting.
12.	 The Register of Members and Share Transfer Register will 
remain closed from 26th May, 2025, Monday to 30th May, 
2025, Friday (both days inclusive).
13.	 The Dividend, if any declared, shall be payable to those 
Shareholders whose name(s) stand registered: 
	
(a)	
as Beneficial Owner upto the end of business hours 
on 25th May, 2025 as per the lists to be furnished by 
National Securities Depositories Limited and Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited in respect of the 
shares held in electronic form, and 
	
(b)	
as Member in the Register of Members of the 
Company/ Registrars & Share Transfer Agent after 
giving effect to valid share transmissions, if any, in 
physical form lodged with the Company upto the 
end of business hours on 25th May, 2025.
14.	 Pursuant to the amendments introduced in the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 (‘the IT Act’) vide Finance Act, 2020, w.e.f. 
Havells India Limited
3
1st April, 2020, dividend declared, paid or distributed 
by a Company on or after 1st April, 2020, is taxable in 
the hands of the shareholders. The Company shall, 
therefore, be required to deduct TDS/ WHT at the time 
of payment of dividend at the applicable tax rates. The 
rates of TDS/ WHT would depend upon the category 
and residential status of the shareholder. Members are 
requested to complete and/ or update their Residential 
Status, PAN, Category as per the IT Act with their 
Depository Participants (‘DPs’) or in case shares are held 
in physical form, with the RTA/ Company by sending 
documents by 23rd May, 2025, Friday. For the detailed 
process, please visit website of the Company and go 
through “Instructions on TDS for Dividend” at https://
havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/Disclosures/TDS-on-
Dividend/Final_Dividend_FY2024-25.pdf.
15.	 i)	
SEBI vide its Circular, mandated that the security 
holders (holding securities in physical form), whose 
folio(s) do not have PAN or Contact Details or Mobile 
Number or Bank Account Details or Specimen 
Signature updated, shall be eligible for any payment 
including dividend, interest or redemption in respect 
of such folios, only through electronic mode with 
effect from 1st April, 2024, upon their furnishing all 
the aforesaid details in entirety.
	
	
Further, any service requests or complaints received 
from the member, are not processed by RTA till the 
aforesaid details/ documents are provided to RTA.
	
	
SEBI has introduced Form ISR - 1 alongwith 
other relevant forms to lodge any request for 
registering PAN, KYC details or any change/ 
updation thereof. 
	
	
Members may also note that SEBI vide its Circular 
dated 25th January, 2022 has mandated listed 
companies to issue securities in dematerialized form 
only while processing service requests viz. Issue of 
duplicate securities certificate; renewal/ exchange 
of securities certificate; endorsement; sub-division/ 
splitting of securities certificate; consolidation of 
securities certificates/ folios; transmission and 
transposition. In view of the same and to eliminate 
all risks associated with physical shares and avail 
various benefits of dematerialisation, Members are 
advised to dematerialise the shares held by them in 
physical form. Accordingly, Members are requested 
to make service requests by submitting a duly filled 
and signed Form ISR – 4. 
	
	
Relevant details and forms prescribed by SEBI in this 
regard including the mode of despatch are available 
on the website of the Company at https://www.
havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-relation/
shareholders-corner.html, for information and use 
by the Shareholders. You are requested to kindly 
take note of the same and update your particulars 
timely. 
	
ii)	
Members who are holding shares in demat 
mode are requested to notify any change in their 
residential address, Bank A/c details and/ or email 
address immediately to their respective Depository 
Participants.
16.	 During the year, amount of Un-claimed Final Dividend 
for the financial year 2016-17 has been deposited in the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund. Further, amount 
of Un-claimed Final Dividend for financial year 2017-18 is 
due for deposit to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund on 26th August, 2025.
	
The Company also transmitted 1,57,247 on account of 
Unclaimed Final Dividend for FY 2016-17 into the DEMAT 
Account of the IEPF Authority held with NSDL (DPID/ 
Client ID IN300708/10656671) in terms of the provisions 
of section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and the IEPF 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 
2016, as amended from time to time. These Equity Shares 
were the Shares of such Shareholders whose unclaimed/ 
unpaid dividend pertaining to financial year 2016-17 
(Final) had been transferred into IEPF and who have not 
encashed their dividends for 7 (Seven) consecutive years. 
In the aforesaid cases, the Shares lying in the Unclaimed 
Suspense A/c of the Company (1,32,100 Equity Shares 
of ` 1 each), maintained in Demat Form, since the year 
2017, were also included.
17. 	 Concerned Shareholders may still claim the shares or 
apply for refund to the IEPF Authority in Web Form No. 
IEPF-5 available on www.iepf.gov.in 
18.	 In case the Dividend has remained unclaimed in respect 
of financial years 2017-18 to 2024-25 the Shareholders 
may approach the Company with their dividend warrants 
for revalidation with the Letter of Undertaking for issue 
of duplicate dividend warrants. The Company regularly 
sends letters/ emails to this effect to the concerned 
Shareholders. 
19.	 The annual accounts of the subsidiary company along 
with the related detailed information is available for 
inspection at the Corporate Office of the Company and 
of the subsidiary concerned and copies will be made 
available to Shareholders of Havells India Limited and its 
subsidiary company upon request. 
20.	 To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are 
advised to exercise due diligence and notify the 
Company of any change in address or demise of 
any member as soon as possible. Members are also 
advised not to leave their demat account(s) dormant 
for long. Periodic statement of holdings should be 
obtained from the concerned Depository Participant 
and holdings should be verified. 
Havells India Limited
4
21.	 Pursuant to the requirements of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 on Corporate Governance, the information about 
the Directors proposed to be appointed/ re-appointed at 
the Annual General Meeting is given in the Annexure to 
the Notice. 
22.	 Pursuant to Section 72 of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with Rule 19(1) of the Rules made thereunder, Shareholders 
can avail facility to make nomination in respect of shares 
held by them in physical form. Shareholders desirous of 
making nominations are requested to send their requests 
in Form SH.13, which is available on the website of the 
Company. 
23.	 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 (as 
amended) and Regulation 44 of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as 
amended), and the Circulars issued by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs dated 8th April, 2020, 13th April, 2020, 
5th May, 2020, 13th January, 2021, 08th December, 2021, 
14th December, 2021, 5th May, 2022, 28th December, 
2022, 25th September, 2023 and 19th September, 2024, 
the Company is providing facility for voting by electronic 
means for all its Members to enable them to cast their 
vote electronically and the business may be transacted 
through such e-Voting. 
	
A member may exercise his/ her vote at the General 
Meeting by electronic means and the Company may pass 
any resolution by electronic voting system in accordance 
with the provisions of the aforesaid Rule. 
	
For this purpose, the Company has entered into an 
agreement with National Securities Depository Limited 
(NSDL) for facilitating voting through electronic means, as 
the authorized agency. 
	
The facility of casting votes by a member using remote 
e-Voting system as well as e-Voting on the day of the 
AGM will be provided by NSDL. 
	
The Members attending the AGM who have not already 
cast their vote by remote e-Voting shall be able to exercise 
their right at the meeting.
	
The Members who have cast their vote by remote e-Voting 
prior to the Meeting may also attend the AGM but shall 
not be entitled to cast their vote again. Members may 
contact Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, Company Secretary, 
for any grievances connected with electronic means at 
investors@havells.com, Tel. # 0120-3331000.
24.	 The remote e-Voting period commences on 14th June, 
2025, Saturday (8:30 am) and ends on 16th June, 2025, 
Monday (5:00 pm). 
	
a.	
Members of the Company, holding shares either 
in physical form or in dematerialized form, as on 
the cut-off date i.e. 10th June, 2025, Tuesday 
may opt for remote e-Voting and cast their vote 
electronically. 
	
b.	
A person, whose name is recorded in the register 
of members or in the register of beneficial owners 
maintained by the depositories as on cut-off date 
only shall be entitled to avail the facility of remote 
e-Voting or e-Voting at the Meeting. 
	
c.	
Any person, who acquires shares of the Company 
and becomes member of the Company after sending 
of the Notice and holding shares as of the cut-off 
date i.e. 10th June, 2025 may obtain the login ID and 
password by sending an email to evoting@nsdl.com or 
investors@havells.com by mentioning their Folio No./ 
DP ID and Client ID No. However, if you are already 
registered with NSDL for e-Voting then you can use 
your existing user ID and password for casting your 
vote. If you forget your password, you can reset your 
password by using “Forget User Details/Password” 
option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com 
	
d.	
Once the vote on a Resolution is cast by the 
Member, the Member shall not be allowed to change 
it subsequently or cast the vote again. 
	
e.	
Member may participate in the AGM even after 
exercising his right to vote through remote e-Voting 
but shall not be allowed to vote again. 
	
f.	
At the end of remote e-Voting period, the facility shall 
forthwith be blocked.
25.	 The Board vide its Resolution passed on 22nd April, 
2025 has appointed M/s Balika Sharma & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries (Membership No. FCS 
4816, CP No. 3222), as Scrutinizer for conducting the 
e-Voting process in accordance with the law and in a fair 
and transparent manner. 
	
The Scrutinizer shall immediately after the conclusion 
of voting at the AGM, unblock the votes cast through 
remote e-Voting and e-Voting on the date of the AGM, 
in the presence of at least two witnesses not in the 
employment of the Company and make, not later than 
2 working days of the conclusion of the Meeting, a 
consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report of the total votes cast 
in favour or against, if any, forthwith to the Chairman of 
the Company or any person authorized by him in writing 
and the Results shall be declared by the Chairman or any 
person authorized by him thereafter. 
	
The Results declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report 
shall be placed on the website of the Company www.
havells.com and on the website of NSDL immediately 
after the declaration of Result by the Chairman or any 
person authorized by him in writing. The results shall also 
be forwarded to the stock exchanges where the shares of 
the Company are listed.
Havells India Limited
5
26.	 SEBI vide its Circulars issued during 2023, established a 
common Online Dispute Resolution Portal (‘ODR Portal’) 
for resolution of disputes arising in the Indian Securities 
Market. The regulatory norms regarding the same were 
consolidated vide SEBI Master Circular dated 11th August, 
2023. Pursuant to the same, investors shall first take 
up a grievance with the Company directly, escalate the 
same through the SCORES Portal and if still not satisfied 
with the outcome after exhausting all available options, 
investors can initiate dispute resolution through the ODR 
Portal at https://smartodr.in/login. Link to the ODR Portal 
is also available on the homepage of Company’s website 
at https://havells.com/smart-odr
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR REMOTE 
E-VOTING ARE AS UNDER:
The remote e-Voting period begins on 14th June, 2025, 
Saturday (8:30 am) and ends on 16th June, 2025, Monday 
(5:00 pm). The remote e-Voting module shall be disabled by 
NSDL for voting thereafter. 
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting system?
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system 
consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
A)	
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for 
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode
	
In terms of SEBI circular dated 9th December, 2020 on 
e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are 
allowed to vote through their demat account maintained 
with 
Depositories 
and 
Depository 
Participants. 
Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number 
and email ID in their demat accounts in order to access 
e-Voting facility.
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of 
shareholders
Login Method
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in 
demat mode 
with NSDL.
1.	
If you are already registered for NSDL IDeAS facility, please visit the e-Services website of NSDL. Open 
web browser by typing the following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or 
on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under 
“Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your 
User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services. Click on 
“Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on options 
available against company name or e-Voting service provider - NSDL and you will be re-directed to 
NSDL e-Voting website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting 
& voting during the meeting.
2.	
If the user is not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://eservices.
nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/
IdeasDirectReg.jsp 
3.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.
nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Voting system is 
launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen 
will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number held with 
NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, 
you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on options 
available against company name or e-Voting service provider - NSDL and you will be redirected to 
e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual 
meeting & voting during the meeting.
4.	 Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning the 
QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
Havells India Limited
6
Type of 
shareholders
Login Method
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in 
demat mode 
with CDSL
1.	
Existing users who have opted for CDSL Easi/ Easiest facility, can login through their user id and 
password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further authentication. The 
users to login Easi/ Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on login 
icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then use your existing my easi username & password.
2.	
After successful login the Easi/ Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible companies 
where the evoting is in progress as per the information provided by company. On clicking the evoting 
option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service provider for casting your vote 
during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, 
there is also links provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can 
visit the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
3.	
If the user is not registered for Easi/ Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option.
4.	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account Number and PAN 
No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate the 
user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the Demat Account. After successful 
authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting option where the evoting is in progress and also able 
to directly access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual 
Shareholders 
(holding 
securities in 
demat mode) 
login through 
their depository 
participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository Participant 
registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. Once login, you will be able to see e-Voting option. Once you 
click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, 
wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on options available against company name or e-Voting service 
provider-NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User 
ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode for any technical issues related to login 
through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical 
issue in login can contact NSDL 
helpdesk by sending a request 
at evoting@nsdl.com or call at 
022- 4886 7000 
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical 
issue in login can contact CDSL 
helpdesk by sending a request 
at 
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.
com  or contact at toll free no. 
1800 22 55 33
B)	
Login Method for shareholders other than Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode and 
shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
	
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
	
1.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web 
browser by typing the following URL: https://www.
evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or 
on a mobile.
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, 
click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User 
ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown 
on the screen. 
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices 
i.e. IDeAs, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ 
with your existing IDeAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL 
eservices after using your log-in credentials, click on 
e-Voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your 
vote electronically.
4.	
Your User ID details are given below :
Manner of holding 
shares i.e. Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) or 
Physical 
Your User ID is:
a)	
For Members 
who hold 
shares in demat 
account with 
NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 
Digit Client ID
For example, if your DP ID 
is IN300*** and Client ID is 
12****** then your user ID is 
IN300***12******.
b)	
For Members 
who hold shares 
in demat account 
with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example, if your Beneficiary 
ID is 12************** then your 
user ID is 12**************
c)	
For Members 
holding shares in 
Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio 
Number registered with the 
company
For example, if folio number is 
001*** and EVEN is 101456 then 
user ID is 101456001***
Havells India Limited
7
5. 	
Password details for shareholders other than Individual 
shareholders are given below:
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-Voting, then you 
can use your existing password to login and cast 
your vote. 
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the first 
time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’ 
which was communicated to you. Once you retrieve 
your ‘initial password’, you need to enter the ‘initial 
password’ and the system will force you to change 
your password. 
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’? 
	
	
(i)	
If your email ID is registered in your demat 
account or with the company, your ‘initial 
password’ is communicated to you on your 
email ID. Trace the email sent to you from 
NSDL from your mailbox. Open the email and 
open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open the 
.pdf file. The password to open the .pdf file is 
your 8 digit client ID for NSDL account, last 
8 digits of client ID for CDSL account or folio 
number for shares held in physical form. The 
.pdf file contains your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial 
password’. 
	
	
(ii)	
If your email ID is not registered, please follow 
steps mentioned below in process for those 
shareholders whose email ids are not 
registered 
6.	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the “Initial 
password” or have forgotten your password: 
	
a)	
Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If you 
are holding shares in your demat account with 
NSDL or CDSL) option available on www.evoting.
nsdl.com. 
	
b)	
“Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are 
holding shares in physical mode) option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com. 
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the password by 
aforesaid two options, you can send a request at 
evoting@nsdl.com mentioning your demat account 
number/folio number, your PAN, your name and 
your registered address etc. 
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the votes on the 
e-Voting system of NSDL. 
7. 	
After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms 
and Conditions” by selecting on the check box. 
8. 	
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button. 
9. 	
After you click on the “Login” button, Home page of 
e-Voting will open. 
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join General 
Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
How to cast your vote electronically and join General Meeting 
on NSDL e-Voting system? 
1.	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all 
the companies “EVEN” in which you are holding shares 
and whose voting cycle and General Meeting is in active 
status.
2.	
Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to cast 
your vote during the remote e-Voting period and casting 
your vote during the General Meeting. For joining virtual 
meeting, you need to click on “VC/ OAVM” link placed 
under “Join General Meeting”.
3.	
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page opens. 
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent 
or dissent, verify/modify the number of shares for which 
you wish to cast your vote and click on “Submit” and also 
“Confirm” when prompted. 
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully” 
will be displayed. 
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by 
clicking on the print option on the confirmation page.
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the Resolution(s), you will 
not be allowed to modify your vote. 
General Guidelines for shareholders: 
1.	
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, 
HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy (PDF/
JPEG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority 
letter etc. with attested specimen signature of the duly 
authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to 
the Scrutinizer by e-mail to balikasharma@gmail.com 
with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.com. Institutional 
shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI 
etc.) can also upload their Board Resolution/ Power of 
Attorney/ Authority Letter etc. by clicking on “Upload 
Board Resolution/ Authority Letter” displayed under 
“e-Voting” tab in their login.
2. 	
It is strongly recommended not to share your password 
with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential. Login to the e-Voting website will 
be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the 
correct password. In such an event, you will need to go 
through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or “Physical 
User Reset Password?” option available on www.evoting.
nsdl.com to reset the password. 
3. 	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and e-Voting 
user manual for Shareholders available at the download 
section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on.: 022 - 4886 
Havells India Limited
8
7000 and 022 - 2499 7000 or send a request at evoting@
nsdl.com or Ms. Pallavi Mhatre, Senior Manager, National 
Securities Depository Limited, 3rd Floor, Naman Chamber, 
Plot C-32, G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra 
East, Mumbai, Maharashtra - 400051, at the designated 
email ID – evoting@nsdl.com or pallavid@nsdl.co.in or at 
telephone nos.:- +91 22 24994545, +91 22 24994559, 
who will also address the grievances connected with 
voting by electronic means. Members may also write to 
the Company Secretary at the Company’s email address 
investors@havells.com 
Process for those shareholders whose email ids are not 
registered with the depositories for procuring user id and 
password and registration of email ids for e-Voting for the 
resolutions set out in this notice: 
1.	
In case shares are held in physical mode please provide 
Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned copy of the 
share certificate (front and back), PAN (self attested 
scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAAR (self attested 
scanned copy of Aadhar Card) by email to investors@
havells.com 
2.	
In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide 
DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 digit beneficiary 
ID), Name, client master or copy of Consolidated Account 
statement, PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card), 
AADHAAR (self attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) to 
investors@havells.com If you are an Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode, you are requested 
to refer to the login method explained at step 1 (A) i.e. 
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for 
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode.
3.	
Alternatively shareholder/members may send a request 
to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user id and password 
for e-Voting by providing above mentioned documents.
4.	
In terms of SEBI circular dated 9th December, 2020 on 
e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed 
to vote through their demat account maintained with 
Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders 
are required to update their mobile number and email 
ID correctly in their demat account in order to access 
e-Voting facility.
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR E-VOTING 
ON THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:
1. 	
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM is same 
as the instructions mentioned above for remote e-Voting. 
2. 	
Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be present in 
the AGM through VC/ OAVM facility and have not casted 
their vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting and 
are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to 
vote through e-Voting system in the AGM. 
3. 	
Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting will 
be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will not be 
eligible to vote at the AGM. 
4. 	
The details of the person who may be contacted for any 
grievances connected with the facility for e-Voting on the 
day of the AGM shall be the same person mentioned for 
Remote e-Voting. 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING 
THE AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER: 
1. 	
Members will be provided with a facility to attend the AGM 
through VC/ OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting system. 
Members may access by following the steps mentioned 
above for Access to NSDL e-Voting system. After 
successful login, you can see link of “VC/ OAVM link” placed 
under “Join meeting” menu against company name. You 
are requested to click on VC/ OAVM link placed under 
Join General Meeting menu. The link for VC/ OAVM will be 
available in shareholder/members login where the EVEN of 
Company will be displayed. Please note that the members 
who do not have the User ID and Password for e-Voting 
or have forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve 
the same by following the remote e-Voting instructions 
mentioned in the Notice to avoid last minute rush. 
2. 	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through 
Laptops for better experience.
3. 	
Further Members will be required to allow Camera and 
use Internet with a good speed to avoid any disturbance 
during the meeting.
4. 	
Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile 
Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via 
Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due 
to Fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore 
recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to 
mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches. 
5. 	
Members who would like to express their views or ask 
questions during the AGM may register themselves as 
a speaker by sending their request from their registered 
email address mentioning their Name, DP ID and Client ID/ 
Folio Number, PAN, Mobile Number at investors@havells.
com latest by 12th June, 2025, Thursday. Those Members 
who have registered themselves as a speaker will only 
be allowed to express their views/ ask questions during 
the AGM. The Company reserves the right to restrict the 
number of speakers depending on the availability of time 
for the AGM.
By Order of the Board 
For Havells India Limited 
Sanjay Kumar Gupta 
Company Secretary
Noida, April 22, 2025
Membership No. F3348 
Registered Office:
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building 
K.G. Marg, Connaught Place, New Delhi – 110001
CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304
Website: www.havells.com
Email: investors@havells.com
Havells India Limited
9
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 
102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
ITEM NO. 6
In terms of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, Central 
Government has, in respect of specified class of companies 
engaged in the production of prescribed goods and services, 
directed that particulars relating to the utilisation of material or 
labour or to other items of cost shall be included in the books 
of account kept by that class of companies. 
These requirements are applicable to the Company and 
accordingly the Board, on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, in its Meeting held on 22nd April, 2025 has approved 
the appointment and remuneration of M/s Chandra Wadhwa & 
Co., Cost Accountants, (Registration No. 00212), as the Cost 
Auditors of the Company to conduct the audit of the cost 
records of the Company for the Financial Year 2025-26 at a 
fee of ` 10.00 Lakhs subject to TDS, GST etc., as applicable, 
apart from out of pocket expenses, as remuneration for cost 
audit services for the Financial Year 2025-26.
Further, in terms of sub-section 3 of Section 148, 
the remuneration of the Cost Auditors appointed by the Board, 
will be determined by the Members of the Company. 
Accordingly, consent of the members is being sought for 
passing an Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 6 of the 
Notice for ratification of the remuneration payable to the Cost 
Auditors for the Financial Year ending 31st March, 2026.
None of the Directors/ Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company/ their relatives are, in any way, concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at 
Item No. 6 of this Notice.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at 
Item No. 6 of the Notice for approval by the shareholders.
ITEM NO. 7
Shri Siddhartha Pandit has been heading the Legal Department 
of the Company since 2015. He has extensive experience 
across industries with expertise in Contract Drafting & 
Negotiations, Litigation Management (Civil & Criminal), Dispute 
Resolution, Mergers and Acquisitions, Statutory Compliances, 
Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) etc. He was subsequently 
appointed as a Whole-time Director of the Company with effect 
from 29th May, 2019.
The prevailing 3 (Three) year term of Shri Siddhartha Pandit 
(DIN: 03562264) as a Whole-time Director of the Company 
which commenced from 29th May, 2022 expires on 
28th May, 2025. 
The Board of Directors upon the recommendation of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, in its Meeting held 
on 22nd April, 2025 and subject to the approval of members 
of the Company, re-appointed Shri Siddhartha Pandit, as a 
Whole-time Director of the Company for a further period of 
3 (Three) years w.e.f. 29th May, 2025. 
Besides remuneration, he is also entitled to the benefits of 
various Employees Stock Purchase Schemes of the Company. 
As of 31st March 2025, total number of shares which have 
been granted but yet to be vested to him are 1,523 shares.
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 197, 198, 203 
read with Schedule V and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Companies Act, 2013, the Board recommends the 
re-appointment of Shri Siddhartha Pandit, as a Whole-time 
Director of the Company, to the Members for their approval. 
Except Shri Siddhartha Pandit, no other Director(s) and Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company and their relatives 
is concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the 
Resolution set out at Item No. 7 of this Notice. 
Disclosure u/r 36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 is set out in the annexure 
to the Explanatory Statement. Other details as required 
under ICSI Secretarial Standard SS-2 are also included in the 
Corporate Governance Report of the Integrated Annual Report 
of the Company.
ITEM NO. 8
In terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, a listed entity shall appoint or reappoint 
Secretarial Auditor with the approval of its shareholders in its 
Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, in terms of the aforesaid requirement and 
subject to the approval of the Shareholders, the Board of 
Directors of the Company upon the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee approved the appointment of M/s MZ & 
Associates, a firm of Practising Company Secretaries, (Firm 
Registration No. P2014DE040000), as Secretarial Auditors of 
the Company for a period of 5 (Five) years beginning from FY 
2025-26, at a remuneration of ` 3 Lakhs (Rupees Three Lakhs 
only) in respect of Secretarial Audit to be undertaken for the FY 
2025-26. The remuneration for the subsequent financial years 
during the tenure of their appointment, shall be decided by the 
Audit Committee/ Board.
M/s MZ & Associates (MZA), a Peer Reviewed Firm of 
Practicing Company Secretaries, is an advisory and consulting 
firm having Pan India network with specialization in Secretarial 
Compliances. MZA has a dedicated team of company 
secretaries and they offer services across corporate laws, SEBI 
regulations, FEMA compliances and allied services. 
The proposed fee is based on the knowledge, expertise, 
industry experience and the time and efforts required to be put 
in by the Secretarial Auditors.
Havells India Limited
10
The Company has received consent and eligibility letter 
from the proposed auditor to act as the Secretarial Auditors 
of the Company, in accordance with the provisions of 
Regulation 24A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Section 
204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
Accordingly, consent of the members is being sought for 
passing an Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 8 of this 
Notice for appointment of M/s MZ & Associates as Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company for a period of 5 (Five) years. 
None of the Directors/ Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company/ their relatives are, in any way, concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at 
Item No. 8 of the Notice. 
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at 
Item No. 8 of the Notice for approval by the shareholders.
ITEM NO. 9
Shri Abhinav Rai Gupta, one of the Promoters of the Company, 
aged about 27 years, is the son of Shri Anil Rai Gupta, the 
Chairman & Managing Director of the Company. He graduated 
from the Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) and is an MBA 
from Harvard University. He gained professional experience 
while working with Bain & Co. India Pvt Ltd on various business 
consulting projects for almost a year. Prior to MBA, he had 
been associated with the Havells group contributing towards 
new product development and innovation in consumer product 
categories for over 3 years.
Considering the qualification, knowledge and experience of Shri 
Abhinav Rai Gupta, the Board upon the recommendations of 
the Audit Committee, in its Meeting held on 19th March, 2025, 
has consented to his appointment as a Vice President of the 
Company, pursuant to the provisions of section 188(1)(f) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), on an annual remuneration of 
` 1 crore per annum inclusive of all benefits, which shall remain 
unchanged during the said period.
The appointment will be effective from the date of approval of 
the Members. In view of good corporate governance principles, 
a fresh approval of the shareholders, under section 188(1)(f), 
will be sought after 3 years.
Shri Abhinav Rai Gupta will lead the team focusing on strategy 
and new initiatives. This induction will strengthen fresh 
perspective, outside-in view and millennial thinking. His key role 
& responsibilities, as a Vice President of the Company will be to:-
•	
Identify and pursue new business opportunities
•	
Explore business partnerships and collaborations
•	
Work with the team to foster a culture of innovation and 
excellence
•	
Assess mega trends relevant for the company / industry 
and propose strategic initiatives
•	
Drive initiatives for expansion of international business
The remuneration of ` 1 crore per annum inclusive of all benefits, 
is in alignment with internal and external benchmarks. For 
internal benchmarks, the compensation of role bearers at 
similar management level and market facing responsibilities 
were considered. The consideration set has a median total 
compensation of ` 1.54 crores per annum (mean of ` 1.55 
crores per annum). For external benchmarks, the Company 
referenced ‘Mercer 2024 India Total Remuneration Survey 
Report’ published by Mercer, renowned for its market leading 
compensation surveys. As per the report, the total compensation 
for similar management level in General Management/ Innovation 
& Strategy/ Business Strategy & Planning has a mean of ` 1.16 
crores per annum. The said report being a privileged document 
of the agency, cannot be made available publicly.
As Section 188(1)(f) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 
15(3)(i) of Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 
2014, provides that related party’s appointment to any office or 
place of profit in the Company carrying monthly remuneration 
exceeding ` 2,50,000/- shall be subject to approval by the 
Members of the Company, accordingly, the appointment of Shri 
Abhinav Rai Gupta, is being proposed before the Members for 
their approval. 
This Explanatory Statement covers the disclosures as required 
under the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) 
Rules, 2014 and the applicable provisions of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015 and 
Circulars issued thereunder.
The Board of Directors recommends the passing of the 
Resolution at Item No. 9 of this Notice by way of an Ordinary 
Resolution. 
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or their 
relatives, other than Shri Anil Rai Gupta, Chairman and Managing 
Director & CEO, and his relatives, are deemed to be concerned 
or interested financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at 
Item No. 9 of this Notice. 
By Order of the Board 
For Havells India Limited 
Sanjay Kumar Gupta 
Company Secretary 
Noida, April 22, 2025
Membership No. F3348 
Registered Office: 
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building 
K.G. Marg, Connaught Place, New Delhi – 110001 
CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304 
Website: www.havells.com
Email: investors@havells.com
Havells India Limited
11
ANNEXURE
PURSUANT TO REGULATION 36 OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) 
REGULATIONS, 2015 AND SECRETARIAL STANDARD 2 ISSUED BY ICSI, INFORMATION ABOUT THE 
DIRECTORS PROPOSED TO BE APPOINTED/ RE-APPOINTED IS FURNISHED BELOW:
Name of Director 
(DIN)
Date of first 
appointment on 
the Board
Date of Birth
Age 
(No. of Equity 
Shares held)
Qualification 
(Relationship with 
other Directors)
Nature of Expertise in specific 
functional areas
Name of Companies 
in which he/ she holds 
Directorship
(Name of listed entities 
from 
where 
person 
has resigned in past 
3 years)
Name of Committees of the 
Companies of which he/ she 
holds Membership 
Shri Siddhartha 
Pandit
(DIN: 03562264)
29th May 2019
30th May,1968 
57 years (7,601 
Equity Shares of 
` 1/- each)
BA LLB 
(Not related with 
any Director of the 
Company)
Shri Siddhartha Pandit has been 
heading the Legal Department of 
the Company since 2015. LEP 
(Leadership 
Excellence 
Program) 
from Harvard Business School and 
BA LLB from Delhi University, He is an 
astute legal professional with over 28 
years of extensive experience across 
industries with expertise in Contract 
Drafting & Negotiations, Litigation 
Management 
(Civil 
& 
Criminal), 
Dispute Resolution, Mergers and 
Aquisitions, Statutory Compliances, 
Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) etc. 
He began his career by gaining court 
experience under Shri P.P Malhotra 
(Sr. Advocate) and also worked with 
Rajinder Narain & Co. Later he moved 
into Corporate to work with Max India, 
Samsung, Ciena, Carrier and Tower 
Vision. In his last assignment, he was 
associated with Indus Towers as VP 
- Legal.
•	 Havells India Limited
	
(Nil)
-
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
(DIN: 00011892) 
30th September 
1992
20th April, 1969
56 years
(Nil)
BA (Eco), MBA 
(Marketing and 
Finance) from Wake 
Forest University, 
North Carolina, 
USA 
(Not related with 
any Director of the 
Company)
Shri Anil Rai Gupta is the Chairman 
and Managing Director of Havells 
India Limited and also the Managing 
Director of QRG Investments and 
Holdings 
Limited, 
a 
promoter 
Company. He joined Havells in 
1992, under the mentorship of his 
father, Late Shri Qimat Rai Gupta. He 
spearheaded Havells’ transformation 
into a modern, tech-savvy, nimble 
and innovative company. Under his 
stewardship, Havells expanded from 
industrial switchgear to consumer 
goods 
and 
lately 
to 
consumer 
durables with the acquisition of 
Lloyd. He graduated in economics 
from Sri Ram College of Commerce, 
Delhi University after which he did his 
MBA from Wake Forest University, 
North Carolina. He has also been 
deemed with the honorary Degree of 
Doctorate by his alma mater (WKU). 
He has been honoured with ‘CEO 
of the Year – Consumer Durable 
Category’ in 2023, 2020 & 2019 by 
Business Today, ‘Entrepreneur of 
the Year’ 2019 by Forbes magazine, 
‘Good Corporate Citizen 2019 for 
Social Welfare’ by PHD Chamber 
of Commerce, ‘AACSB Influential 
leader award’ 2019, The ‘Economic 
Times Family Business Award’ 2018, 
‘Emerging Business Leader Award’ 
2017 by All India Management 
Association to name a few.
•	 Havells India Limited
•	 QRG Enterprises Limited
•	 QRG Investments and 
Holdings Limited
•	 Havells International 
Inc.
	
(Nil)
Havells India Limited 
-	
Enterprises Risk Management 
Committee - Member 
-	
Share Allotment and Transfer 
Committee - Member 
-	
Executive Committee - Member 
QRG Investments and Holdings 
Limited 
-	
Audit Committee - Member 
-	
Nomination 
& 
Remuneration 
Committee - Member 
-	
IT 
Strategy 
and 
Steering 
Committee - Member 
-	
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee – Member
-	
Executive Committee - Member
-	
Review Committee Chairman
Note: For other details, the manner in which the proposed person meets such requirements, please refer to the Corporate Governance Section 
of the Integrated Annual Report.
Havells India Limited
12
 Diverse 
  Portfolio
Omni-
  Channel
Values
Investments
Ev
ol
vi
ng
 E
xt
er
na
l E
nv
ir
on
m
en
t
Havells India Limited
 42nd Annual Report | 2024-25
Rooted in Values.
GEARED FOR FUTURE.
CONTENTS
1-94
Integrated Report
1	
Rooted in Values.  
Geared for Future.
5	
About this Report
8	
Corporate Overview
11	
Product Portfolio
14	
Message from the Chairman  
and Managing Director
16	
Business Model
18	
Strategy
20	
Risk Management
29	
ESG
32	
Stakeholder Engagement
34	
Materiality
38	
Financial Capital
41	
Manufactured Capital
44	
Human Capital
60	
Intellectual Capital
74	
Social and Relationship Capital
86	
Natural Capital
92	
Governance
94	
Corporate Information
95-190
Statutory Reports 
95	
Directors’ Report
126	 Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
160	 Management Discussion and 
Analysis
168	 Report on Corporate 
Governance
191-371
Financial Statements
191	 Standalone Financial 
Statements
276	 Consolidated Financial 
Statements
355	 Assurance Report
365	 GRI Content Index
371	 10-Year Progress at a Glance
To download please visit: www.havells.com or scan QR code
Financial Highlights
Net Revenue
` 21,746 crores
EBITDA
` 2,149 crores
PAT
` 1,489 crores
Earnings Per Share
` 23.75
Rooted in Values.
GEARED FOR FUTURE.
Values
OUR FOUNDATIONAL VALUES
Firmly anchored in a strong belief system that continue 
to shape our culture, actions and decisions. 
At Havells, our journey has always 
been guided by deep-rooted values 
and a commitment to building a better 
tomorrow. We continue to shape 
our progress on the principles of our 
founder, Shri Qimat Rai Gupta (QRG).
Since the very beginning, Havells 
has been built on a foundation of 
transparency, simplicity and integrity 
with a business mantra of ‘growth is 
life’. From a humble origin in 1958, 
when QRG started a modest electrical 
trading business in Bhagirath Palace, 
Delhi, to acquiring the Havells brand in 
1971 in an unconventional move and 
eventually transforming it into a trusted 
name in homes and businesses across 
the country, our journey has been one 
of vision and determination. 
Throughout the decades, we have 
prioritised quality, strong relationships, 
and long-term sustained growth over 
short-term gains. Deeply embedded in 
our business approach, these values 
continue to define every decision we 
make, ensuring that we stay rooted to 
our purpose, remain resilient through 
changing times and continue to create 
sustainable value across cycles. While 
our values provide directions, they do 
not impose rigidity. We have always 
encouraged an environment of open 
thinking, which combined with staying 
true to our roots has helped us remain 
agile and adaptable.
Over the years, as the organisation 
expanded multifold, the values have 
also got more formalised with expected 
behaviours, so that every step is aligned 
with principles.
Customer-Centricity
	 Providing value to customers
	 Highest level of service
Humility & Simplicity
	 Open and humble working environment
	 Pride in the work
01
04
Entrepreneurship
	 Ownership mindset; setting aspirations
	 Empowerment & trust
Equality
	 Egoless and boundaryless culture
	 Openness and inclusivity
02
05
Empathy
	 Value every stakeholder
	 Being honest & transparent
03
Ethics & Governance
	 Professional integrity
	 Strong corporate governance
06
Values
Values
The values and timeless 
learnings from QRG have 
not only driven our past and 
present but continue to shape 
our future, guiding us across 
every aspect of business. 
Expressed in his own words, 
these insights align closely 
with the philosophy of 
integrated value creation, 
improving outcomes across 
the various capitals and 
driving sustainable growth.  
- Shri Qimat Rai Gupta
Governance
In the long run, successful businesses are built 
on corporate ethics and values.
Manufactured Capital 
To be successful, one has to own plants to 
control quality.
Human Capital 
The trick is to find right professionals and 
delegate responsibilities to them. If you do 
that, they would deliver results.
Intellectual Capital 
(Don’t follow the crowd blindly. Think independently.)
Sau sawar Dilli chale, toh aap bhi chal diye.
Social & Relationship Capital 
I prefer to share value with our trade partners 
and build goodwill, rather than maximise 
gains at their expense.
Financial Capital 
(We must strengthen ourselves from within, breathe 
positivity through all phases, and hold a steady 
outlook – no matter the situation.)
Bheetar se khud ko mazboot banana hoga, 
aati jaati saanson mein utsaah ka pravah lana 
hoga. Paristhitiyaan anukool rahein na rahein, 
Par drishtikon ko mazboot banana hoga.
Read more 41-43
Read more 44-59
Read more 60-73
Read more 74-85
Read more 38-40
Havells India Limited
2
Investments
OUR ENABLERS FOR TOMORROW
We have built the organisation on consistent and 
focussed investments for strengthening our capabilities, 
enabling us to drive sustained growth and prepare for 
future opportunities.
Building on our values and staying true to our strategic direction, Havells continues to invest across key focus areas – brand 
building, channel expansion, innovation, digitisation and talent build-up. With these investments, Havells has been creating 
a formidable position for itself in the market to drive better growth and margins over a period of time.
Innovation
Channel
Brand
Digitisation
Talent
Investment Areas
Additionally, during the year, to fortify 
the manufacturing capabilities, Havells 
commissioned a new cables plant and 
announced the second expansion 
phase of cables plant along with 
a new refrigerator manufacturing 
plant. Simultaneously, it undertook 
capacity enhancement efforts across 
existing facilities.
These investments are not only 
strengthening the current operations 
but also gearing Havells for the future. 
We continue to strengthen our core, 
scale emerging opportunities and create 
breakthrough innovations that will define 
the next phase of our journey.
Our core strength of strong product 
portfolio, channel presence, 
aspirational mass-premium brand, and 
manufacturing capabilities continue 
to serve as the backbone of our 
growth. By enabling consistent revenue 
growth and healthy cash flows, our 
competencies allow us to reinvest in 
future-focussed initiatives, ensuring 
sustainable value creation for all 
stakeholders, and preparing us for a 
brighter future.
Aspiring to accelerate growth and 
leverage new opportunities, we are 
actively investing in high-potential areas 
including new markets and emerging 
categories such as air coolers, water 
purifiers, personal grooming, solar, 
chimneys, cooktops, and other 
kitchen appliances. Parallelly, we 
are strengthening our omni-channel 
presence and building teams for 
alternate channels – B2B, modern retail, 
regional retail, e-commerce, and quick 
commerce – to enhance our reach, 
enable deeper market penetration 
and effectively serve our consumers. 
Recognising the immense global 
potential, Havells has also undertaken 
steps to expand its international 
footprints.
Our vision extends beyond near-
term opportunities. Through R&D-led 
innovation and a focus on evolving 
markets and consumers, we continue 
to shape future growth areas. Over the 
years, this approach has helped us to 
successfully venture into new categories 
and scale them to meaningful levels. In 
doing so, we are not just navigating the 
present but also proactively gearing up 
for the future.
Read more in Strategy chapter on pages 18-19
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
3
Integrated Report
Rooted in Values. 
Geared for Future.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Diverse Portfolio & Omni-Channel
OUR EXPANSION & DEPTH
Over time, we have grown and branched into new areas while 
staying true to who we are - unlocking opportunities across 
product categories and channels
Evolving External Environment
EVER-CHANGING MACRO
In a dynamic business environment, we stay agile and 
future-ready – equipped through recent investments to 
drive growth and value creation
Havells’ journey has been one of 
steady and thoughtful expansion. Over 
the years, guided by our values and 
supported by strategic investments, 
we have expanded within our existing 
product categories while seeding 
and scaling new ones. Each category 
has been well supported by strong 
brands, wide channel presence, 
talent capabilities, R&D backing, and 
manufacturing prowess. 
We haven’t merely entered multiple 
categories but in each one, we 
have worked to establish a strong, 
meaningful presence – across market 
share, product quality, brand equity, 
customer service and after-sales 
experience. From a few product lines 
a couple of decades ago, Havells has 
evolved into a diversified electrical and 
consumer durables company with  
20 product categories.
At the same time, we went deeper 
within each existing category to unlock 
new addressable markets. Be it 
tapping into the growing demand from 
renewables through tailored offerings or 
creating a niche in professional lighting 
The context and business environment 
we operate in continues to evolve –  
driven by macroeconomic shifts, 
emerging technologies, changing 
consumer aspirations and emerging 
channels of distribution. These changes 
will continue to present both challenges 
and opportunities. At Havells, we 
remain focussed on strengthening 
our readiness to capitalise on  the 
opportunities while effectively navigating 
through the challenges.
Over the past few years, we have 
consciously frontloaded critical 
investments across our business, 
driven by a strategic intent to stay 
ahead of the curve. At the same time, 
we remain firmly aligned to the beliefs 
and principles that have guided us 
since inception. These values continue 
to define and shape how we grow, 
make decisions and engage with 
stakeholders.
We believe that our balanced 
approach, Rooted in Values and 
Geared For Future, will enable us 
to build a stronger, more responsive, 
and a future-ready Havells, focussed 
on creating long-term value across 
evolving times.
by serving the complex needs of leading 
industries, modern workspaces and 
public infrastructure – we continue to 
strengthen our product portfolio. Other 
than benefiting Havells, the expansion 
has also created value and opportunity 
for our entire ecosystem of dealers, 
supply chain partners, customers, 
employees and shareholders.
Havells India Limited
4
ABOUT THIS 
REPORT
Reporting Period
This Report is for the period April 1, 2024 to 
March 31, 2025, and is released annually.
Reporting Boundary
The reporting boundary covers the operations of Havells 
India Limited on a standalone basis. This includes all nine 
manufacturing locations - Alwar (Rajasthan), Neemrana 
(Rajasthan), Ghiloth (Rajasthan), Baddi (Himachal Pradesh), 
Faridabad (Haryana), Haridwar (Uttarakhand), Sahibabad 
(Uttar Pradesh), Sri City (Andhra Pradesh) and Tumakuru 
(Karnataka). This also includes Corporate office (Noida, Uttar 
Pradesh), branch offices (24), warehouses (19) and one CRI 
office (Noida, Uttar Pradesh).
Proactive Approach
Our deep commitment to sustainability ensures proactive 
adoption of sustainable measures as we manufacture our 
products, resulting in optimal use of energy and natural 
resources and minimum environmental impact. Our plants 
have well-implemented ESG systems in place whose 
accuracy and effectiveness is constantly ensured through 
regular audits by independent auditors.
Frameworks, Guidelines, and Standards
This Report conforms to the guiding principles of Integrated 
Reporting Framework developed by the erstwhile International 
Integrated Reporting Council and maintained by the IFRS 
Foundation. The Report is also prepared in alignment 
with the GRI Standards and the requirements of Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting issued by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). The GRI 
Content Index forms a part of this Report.
Other than the above, the report is also prepared in 
accordance with The Companies Act, 2013 (and the rules 
made thereunder), National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct, Indian Accounting Standards, Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, Secretarial 
Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India, and Sustainability Reporting Standards Board 
of the ICAI and the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagement (“ISAE”) 3000 (Revised).
Data Integrity
This Report aims to present accurate, unbiased, reliable and 
comparable information in a concise and comprehensible 
manner. Strict internal controls have been applied to collect 
and analyse relevant data through our integrated data 
management system to support the disclosures in this 
Report.
Materiality
Materiality assessments are periodically undertaken by the 
Company to identify critical material topics. This helps in 
disclosure of relevant information and formulation of strategies 
for sustainable growth.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
5
Integrated Report
About this Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
External Assurance
Reasonable and limited assurance on the agreed indicators 
in the Integrated Report including the Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report on a Standalone basis (unless 
otherwise stated), has been provided by Price Waterhouse 
& Co Chartered Accountants, in accordance with the 
Standard on Sustainability Assurance Engagements 3000 
“Assurance Engagements on Sustainability Information” and 
the Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 “Assurance 
Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”, both issued 
by the Sustainability Reporting Standards Board of the ICAI 
and the International Standard on Assurance Engagement 
(“ISAE”) 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements other than 
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and 
the ISAE 3410 “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse 
Gas Statements”. The assurance reports attached contains 
details of the subject matter, criteria, procedures performed, 
and reasonable assurance opinion and limited assurance 
conclusion, as applicable.
Havells Integrated Route to Holistic Value Creation
Our integrated approach plays a crucial role in constantly evaluating our progress, 
measuring our impact and creating sustainable value for all stakeholders.
Five strategic pillars form the cornerstone of our long-term success 
and guide our decision-making and operational priorities.
Strategic Pillars
Brand
Channel
Innovation
Digitisation
Talent
S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
Feedback
Your feedback on this report helps us to continue disclosing information that is relevant and conducive to stakeholder 
decision-making. We welcome you to share your feedback on: sustainability@havells.com | investors@havells.com
We take into consideration all the six capitals employed in our operations 
and monitor our impact on them, continuously striving to improve outcomes 
across each capital through focussed initiatives and investments. 
Manufactured Capital
Human Capital
Social and 
Relationship Capital
Intellectual Capital
Natural Capital
Capitals Impacted
Financial Capital
Havells India Limited
6
Identification and assessment of relevant material issues helps in more informed and 
strategic decision-making, drives value creation and ensures long-term success.
Material Issues
Climate strategy 
& action
M1
Circular economy 
and waste 
management
M7
Responsible 
digitalisation & 
technology use
M13
Human capital 
development
M2
Innovation R&D
M8
Customer & other 
stakeholders’ 
delight
M14
Governance and 
ethical business 
conduct
M3
Capacity 
utilisation & 
market presence
M9
Brand integrity 
& salience
M15
Water stewardship 
and air quality 
improvement
M4
Distribution 
network & 
channels
M10
Sustainable 
packaging
M16
Occupational 
health and safety
M5
Sustainable 
sourcing & vendor 
management
M11
Biodiversity
M17
Product 
stewardship
M6
Human rights 
and CSR
M12
Sustainable 
manufacturing to 
achieve low carbon 
footprint product
M18
Our stakeholders are key enablers in driving our business 
operations and pursuing our business goals. We constantly 
aim at maximising value creation for each one of them.
Shareholders/investors
Employees
Customers
Stakeholder Value Creation
Dealers
Vendors 
Communities
Bankers and other 
financial institutions 
Government and 
regulatory agencies 
Media
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
7
Integrated Report
About this Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Company Overview
A DIVERSIFIED FAST MOVING ELECTRICAL GOODS 
(FMEG) AND CONSUMER DURABLES COMPANY
An entrenched brand with presence in more than 
70 countries worldwide, Havells has spun a legacy of trust, 
innovation and excellence, creating exceptional value for its 
stakeholders in a journey spanning over multiple decades.
Starting as a small trading business at 
Bhagirath Palace, Delhi in 1958, Havells 
expanded to a multi-brand multi-
product portfolio, offering solutions that 
cater to the residential, commercial and 
industrial requirements.  
Our in-house manufacturing, well-
supported by strong R&D capabilities, 
has laid the foundation for Havells, 
enabling it to design and launch 
innovative products that align with the 
evolving market demands and deliver 
greater value and efficiency. A wide 
and deep product portfolio, delivered 
through a strong omni-channel 
presence, has helped Havells to go 
deeper into homes and be available 
across the country. We are proud 
to have secured consistent ratings 
from independent credit rating 
agencies and currently hold AAA 
(long-term) and A1+ (short-term) 
ratings by CARE, supported by our 
stable financial foundation and robust 
governance practices. 
Customer-Centricity
Humility & Simplicity
Entrepreneurship
Equality
Empathy
Ethics & Governance
VA LU E S
Our Ethos
To be a globally recognised corporation known 
for excellence, governance, consumer delight 
and fairness to each stakeholder including the 
society and environment in which we operate.
V ISI O N
To achieve our vision through business ethics, global 
reach, technological expertise, building long-term 
relationships with all our associates, customers, 
partners, and employees.
M ISSI O N
Havells India Limited
8
Infrastructure
Retail &
Commercial
Industrial
Offices
Homes
Home AND BEYOND
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
9
Integrated Report
Company Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Our Global Presence 
Numbers That Speak Volumes
Manufacturing 
units
16
Offices
45
Strong dealer 
network
~19,400
Product 
verticals
20
Brands
6
Research 
centres 
4
People 
strength
7,117
Asia
Europe
Americas
Middle East
Australia
Africa
Havells India Limited
10
Product Portfolio
A DIFFERENTIATED & WIDE 
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
Our extensive product portfolio comprising multiple brands has been 
thoughtfully designed to cater to the current and emerging needs of 
our customers across all sectors and segments. Strengthened by our 
research and development expertise and rooted in our commitment to 
quality and reliability, our products are an integral part of homes, offices, 
commercial spaces, industries and infrastructure projects.
OUR BRANDS 
Segment Results Mix (FY 2024-25)
	 25.4% Switchgears
	 36.4% Cables
	 12.0% Lighting and fixtures
	 18.8% Electrical consumer durables
	 6.2% Lloyd Consumer 
	 1.2% Others
Revenue Mix (FY 2024-25)
	 11.0% Switchgears
	 33.0% Cables
	 7.6% Lighting and fixtures
	 18.5% Electrical consumer durables
	 23.6% Lloyd Consumer 
	 6.3% Others
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
11
Integrated Report
Product Portfolio
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Domestic Switchgears    Capacitors    Switches    Industrial Switchgears
Professional Luminaires    Consumer Luminaires
Switchgears
Lighting  
and Fixtures
Power Cables    Flexible Cables
Cables
Havells India Limited
12
Fans    Appliances    Water Heaters
Electrical Consumer
Durables (ECDs)
Motors    Solar    Pump    Water Purifiers    Personal Grooming
Others
Air Conditioners    Televisions    Washing Machines    Refrigerators
Lloyd
Consumer
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
13
Integrated Report
Product Portfolio
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN  
AND MANAGING DIRECTOR
Dear Valued Shareholders,
I am pleased to present the Integrated Report of your Company 
for FY 2024-25. Your Company sustained its long-term 
momentum of mid-teen revenue growth, despite a subdued 
consumer demand environment. The performance was driven by 
decent on-ground execution and market share gains.
It was further supported by a steady 
infrastructure and industrial activities. We 
accelerated investments across key business 
areas, aimed at strengthening our long-term 
capabilities. Lloyd delivered a robust revenue 
growth along with margin improvement, led 
by cost efficiency initiatives. Your Company 
continued to maintain a strong financial position 
with healthy cash flow generation, a debt-free 
balance sheet and consistent dividend payouts.
Anil Rai Gupta
Chairman and Managing Director
Rooted in Values.  
Geared for Future.
At Havells, we believe that a 
sustainable organisation is built on a 
foundation of core values and culture. 
Our principles, shaped by the legacy 
of my father Shri Qimat Rai Gupta, 
continue to guide our actions and 
decisions. Even as we expand into new 
categories, geographies and channels, 
these values remain at the heart of 
everything we do.
Our obsession with customer-centricity 
drives us to deliver differentiated 
and high-quality products, providing 
lasting value to the consumers. The 
products are supported with in-house 
manufacturing and reliable after-sales 
service, even in the most remote parts 
of the country. We believe that the spirit 
of entrepreneurship amongst each of 
our employees continues to define our 
culture. We encourage an ownership 
mindset – where professionals act 
like owners and owners operate with 
professional rigour. We continue to take 
pride in fostering an open, humble and 
inclusive work environment, driven by 
empathy and not bound by hierarchies. 
At the core is our commitment to ethical 
conduct, transparent ways of working 
and robust corporate governance.
This culture also empowers us to invest 
in key business capabilities, laying the 
groundwork for long-term stable growth 
and business resilience. Our business 
approach is to rely on strengthening our 
core, scaling new engines of growth 
while at the same time investing in 
future breakthroughs. This philosophy 
defines how we navigate the present 
while gearing for tomorrow.
Havells India Limited
14
New product development remained 
a key focus, backed by R&D and 
consumer insights. Notable launches 
during the year included India’s first 
AI-powered designer air conditioner, 
distinctive home art lighting and the 
next-generation BLDC+ fans.
On the digitisation front, internal 
process improvements were 
complemented by customer-facing 
initiatives such as strengthening of our 
direct-to-consumer (D2C) portal and 
launch of a unique loyalty programme -  
Havells Happiness, enhancing the 
overall customer experience. A deep 
talent pool across emerging categories 
and channels have played a vital role in 
driving scale and market share gains in 
these growth areas.
ESG
As part of our ongoing commitment to 
sustainability and responsible corporate 
governance, we made meaningful 
progress in integrating ESG principles 
into our operations. Our ESG strategy 
is aimed at creating long-term value 
for our stakeholders while contributing 
positively to the environment 
and society.
We continue to reduce our carbon 
footprint through energy-efficient 
technologies and sustainable 
resource management, with the goal 
of achieving a significant reduction 
in greenhouse gas emissions in the 
coming years. We are also aligned 
with the Net Zero targets aimed at 
reducing carbon emissions. Product 
Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) journey has 
been initiated to support our product 
sustainability roadmap and internal 
targets have also been set across key 
areas such as climate resilience and 
workplace safety.
With a commitment towards the 
society, we are fostering an inclusive, 
safe and equitable workplace. We 
continue to support communities 
through charitable partnerships and 
employee volunteerism. To support the 
education for all at the grassroot level, 
our mid-day meal initiative continued to 
make a meaningful impact. I am proud 
to share that this year, the initiative 
crossed a significant milestone of 100 
million meals served since inception. 
We further scaled our efforts in the area 
of menstrual health & hygiene with the 
distribution of over 2,30,000 sanitary 
kits and conducting regular awareness 
workshops under Project Baala.
With an aim to nurture young minds to 
contribute meaningfully to society and 
India’s development, during the year, 
your Company partnered with Ashoka 
University to establish Havells School 
of Management & Leadership under 
Ashoka University. 
Outlook
We enter FY 2025-26 with optimism 
as recent policy measures by the 
government, including income tax rate 
reductions and monetary policy easing, 
are expected to support consumer 
sentiment and discretionary spending. 
While infrastructure & industrial 
investment driven demand continues 
to remain strong, we also expect 
the demand from past real estate 
launches to gradually percolate through 
the ecosystem, supporting growth 
in associated categories. However, 
elevated commodity price volatility and 
global trade uncertainties remain key 
risks to business performance.
Backed by a diversified portfolio and 
recent investments, your Company is 
well positioned to tap into opportunities 
across end-markets and create 
sustainable value for all stakeholders.
In closing, I would like to express 
my sincere gratitude to our Board of 
Directors, employees, customers, 
channel partners, suppliers and 
shareholders. Your continued trust 
and support have been instrumental in 
shaping our growth journey.
Regards,
Anil Rai Gupta
Chairman and Managing Director
Phase of accelerated 
investments
Over the last few years, Havells has 
strategically undergone a phase of 
accelerated investments across key 
areas of business. Some of these 
investments may have been slightly 
frontloaded, leading to a step-up in 
operating expenses. However, we 
believe these were required to build 
capabilities and prepare the Company 
for the future. The investments 
powered brand-building through 
traditional and digital media, expanded 
our channel presence and bolstered 
R&D and manufacturing to further 
enhance growth.
Simultaneously, we made progress 
in digitisation to enhance business 
efficiency, while also investing in talent 
buildup across categories, channels & 
functions. With the growing relevance 
of alternate channels, we have 
expanded our talent pool in rural and 
semi-urban markets, modern retail, 
and have also built a ground force 
of In-Shop Demonstrators (ISDs), 
leading to improved throughput from 
these formats.
With a majority of these investments 
now having reached a decent 
level, your Company is well-poised 
to capitalise on the platform 
created.  While areas like R&D and 
manufacturing will continue to see 
incremental outlay, the broader 
focus will be now on sweating these 
investments to drive growth, operating 
leverage and improving margins 
across businesses. 
We have already begun to see the 
benefits of our recent initiatives, with 
the Lloyd brand gaining steady traction 
in the market. During the year, Lloyd’s 
association with new channel partners 
reflects its growing brand strength 
and wider acceptance. At the same 
time, Havells and its other brands 
continued to enhance their positioning 
across categories in respective 
consumer segments.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
15
Integrated Report
Message from the Chairman  
and Managing Director
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Model
INPUTS
VALUE CREATION PROCESS
Manufactured Capital
Manufacturing units: 16
Warehousing space: ~48 lakhs sq. ft.
Offices: 45
Gross block value: ` 5,198 crores
Capex: ` 798 crores
Financial Capital
Equity: ` 8,331 crores
Cash (net of debt): ` 3,353 crores
Human Capital
Total employees: 7,117
New employee hire: 1,836
Average hours of training per 
employee: 29.59
Intellectual Capital
R&D spend: ` 258 crores
R&D team strength: 861
R&D centres: 4
Investment in brand building:  
` 622 crores
New designs applied in  
FY 2024-25: 211
Patents applied in FY 2024-25: 
77
Social and Relationship Capital
Dealers: ~19,400
Retailers: 2.68 lakhs
Electricians: 3.01 lakhs
Total active vendors: 8,826
CSR expenditure: ` 32 crores
Natural Capital
Installed solar power capacity:  
15.6 MW
Energy consumed:  
2,03,121 MWh
Water consumption:  
269.29 mega litres
Waste generated: 42,861 MT
Business Activities
Vision
To be a globally recognised 
corporation known for 
excellence, governance, 
consumer delight and 
fairness to each stakeholder 
including the society and 
environment in which  
we operate.
Ethos
Mission
To achieve our vision 
through business 
ethics, global reach, 
technological expertise, 
building long-term 
relationships with all our 
associates, customers, 
partners, and employees.
Values
  Customer-Centricity
  Entrepreneurship
  Empathy
  Humility & Simplicity
  Equality
  Ethics and 
Governance
Research and 
Development
Robust R&D capabilities 
driving innovation, 
technological 
advancement, reliability, 
product premiumisation 
and differentiation, and 
ultimately customer 
delight
Manufacturing
Continuous 
investment in scaling 
up manufacturing 
capabilities 
with in-house 
manufacturing of key 
products for better 
flexibility and clear 
product differentiation
After-sales service
Prompt after-sales 
services combined 
with use of technology 
and people 
engagement are used 
as levers for customer 
delight and lasting 
customer relationships
Product 
development
Establishing 
interdepartmental 
synergy for seamless 
product development 
and delivery,  
supported by in-house 
manufacturing
Procurement
Establishing long-term 
strategic partnerships 
with suppliers with 
key focus on higher 
domestic procurement 
(Make in India) and 
process digitisation
Sales and 
marketing
Strong focus on 
brand building efforts 
with healthy spends 
and multiple channels 
for advertising and 
sales promotion
Supply chain and 
logistics
Omni-channel 
distribution approach 
covering traditional 
and alternate 
channels for higher 
brand awareness and 
market presence
Brand
Channel
Innovation
Digitisation
Talent
Strategic Priorities
STRENGTHENING OUR CORE  
FOR A STRONGER TOMORROW
S5
S2
S1
S3
S4
Havells India Limited
16
Right from research, product design and development to strategic partnerships, 
robust go-to-market strategies and reliable customer service, our business model is 
built on quality and efficiency. Creating value for stakeholders at every step of our 
journey, Havells’ streamlined operations and customer-centric solutions positions it 
for an enriching today and a sustainable tomorrow.
OUTPUT
OUTCOME
SDGs Impacted
Financial Capital
Revenue: ` 21,746 crores
EBITDA: ` 2,149 crores
PAT: ` 1,489 crores
EPS: ` 23.75
Contribution to exchequer: ` 5,275 crores
Manufactured Capital
Total number of product category: 20
Active SKUs: 20,000+
Human Capital
Employees associated with the Company for 
5+ years: 32%
Attrition rate (Permanent Employees): 20.7%
Intellectual Capital
Brands owned: 6
Patents granted till now: 104
Social and Relationship Capital
Net promoter score: 70
Mid-day meals: Over 10 crores since inception
Tree plantation: 4,07,500 Teak Trees 
Sanitary kits distributed:  2,30,000+ kits
Education infrastructure building & scholarship:  
500+ students
Foundation learning & numeracy programme:
1,00,000+ students across 3,000+ schools 
Skill development programme:  
3,000+ electricians 
Natural Capital
Total solar energy generated: 15,305 MWh
Total renewable energy consumed:
15,135 MWh
Total water recycled: 42%
Total waste recycled: 66%
Brands
Electrical Consumer 
Durables
Lighting and  
Fixtures
Cable
Switchgears
Others
Lloyd
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
17
Integrated Report
Business Model
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Strategy
INVESTING IN SUSTAINED 
GROWTH & VALUE CREATION
At Havells, we are guided by a strategy that empowers us to 
succeed today while paving the way to a thriving tomorrow. Built 
on five key pillars – brand, channel, innovation, digitisation, and 
talent – it lays down a clear roadmap to drive business growth 
and create sustained value for our stakeholders. 
With strong emphasis on branding and 
innovation, the strategy helps us to 
deliver on our commitment to offering 
differentiated and aspirational products 
across multiple channels to tap into 
different customer segments, diverse 
markets and multiple geographies. 
We also focus on leveraging the 
power of technology to improve value 
chain efficiency across all businesses, 
ultimately enhancing customer 
experience. By building a strong talent 
and leadership pool, we ensure agility, 
resilience and growth in a competitive 
landscape.
Key Actions 
	 Strengthening relationship with our dealer network
	 Getting closer to consumers through strong tie-ups 
with multi-brand outlets, regional retailers, and modern 
formats. Expanding in e-commerce and quick commerce
	 Going deeper by exploring new markets in the semi-
urban and rural regions; adding touchpoints in smaller 
towns through Utsav stores
	 Widening the customer base by catering to a diverse set 
of base 
Capitals Impacted
Channel
Key Actions 
	 Reinforcing the ethos of brand ‘Havells’
	 Straddling across different consumer groups and socio-
economic/income with clear positioning of each brand
	 Sustained investments in the brand to deepen connect 
with stakeholders
	 Enhancing brand reach across multiple channels with 
customised and unique targeting
Capitals Impacted
Brand
S1
S2
Havells India Limited
18
Key Actions 
	 Product extension & expansion with focus on innovation 
and product development and continued investments in 
R&D
	 Capability building that cuts across businesses through 
centre of excellence
	 Increasing alignment between business & innovation
	 Thought leadership and development of breakthrough 
products serving consumer aspirations
Capitals Impacted
Innovation
Key Actions 
	 Leveraging IT infrastructure for digital transformation, 
improving overall product experience and enhancing 
consumer journey
	 Deploying new-age digital technologies across all functions 
to drive consistent value creation for stakeholders
	 Making technology an enabler and partner of business
Capitals Impacted
Digitisation
Key Actions 
	 Integrating individual & company aspirations
	 Entrepreneurial with distributed leadership
	 Developing leaders from within; focus on placing strong 
talent behind emerging categories
	 Instituting wealth creation opportunity
Capitals Impacted
Talent
S3
S5
S4
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
19
Integrated Report
Strategy
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Risk Management
GEARING FOR A RESILIENT FUTURE WITH 
ROBUST RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Efficient risk management is integral to Havells’ business strategy 
and for achieving long-term goals. By quickly identifying and 
addressing the strategic and emerging risks, enabled by a strong 
ERM framework, well-established processes, adoption of new 
technologies and exceptional monitoring and reporting, we are 
geared to navigate every challenge and leverage new opportunities.
Centred on stakeholder interests, 
Havells Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) process enables us to strengthen 
risk mitigation efforts while efficiently 
capitalising on opportunities. The 
Company has adapted the Committee 
of Sponsoring Organisations of the 
Treadway Commission (COSO) 
Framework to establish robust internal 
controls and seamlessly integrate them 
into its key business processes by 
implementing a structured approach. 
Collectively, these controls enable 
Havells to ensure adherence to the 
legal and ethical requirements while 
Inputs
	 Strategic Objective/Enablers
	 External Environment Scan
	 Global risk report
	 India risk report
	 Benchmarking
	 Impact, Likelihood  
& Velocity
	 Control
	 Mitigation actions
	 Action audit
	 Monitoring of key risk  
indicators
	 RM Training
Objective & Strategies
Establish Risk Appetite
Change Points
Risk Identification
Risk rating
Critical
Moderate
Acceptable
Criteria (rating out of 30)
Risk score>= 16
Risk score> 10 and <=15
Risk score<= 10
Risk Assessment & Evaluation
Mitigation Action Completion
Residual Risk Assessment
Monitor, Review & Report
High 
Impact 
High 
Velocity
Sign off & 
feedback
1
2
3
Risk Response
4
6
7
Critical
Severe
Moderate
Acceptable
KRI (Early Warning)
5
Risk Repository
Risk Register
Review Documents  
& Reports
to take to achieve its objectives. 
The comprehensive risk appetite 
framework, by clearly defining roles 
and responsibilities and establishing 
robust processes for risk monitoring 
and reporting, guides us in decision-
making and ensures that we remain 
aligned with our strategic goals. 
Playing a pivotal role in Havells’ Risk 
Management, the Board of Directors, 
periodically evaluate the Company’s 
risk exposure and associated 
response plan.
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework
maintaining a sharp focus on risk 
assessment and management.
The framework also places significant 
emphasis on monitoring and 
reporting the Company’s adherence 
to established controls, especially 
concerning utilisation of the same by 
internal auditors.
In an endeavour to advance to the next 
level of maturity, we have defined our 
Risk appetite and Key Risk Indicators 
(KRI) for critical functions / areas 
helping us to define the scope and 
nature of risk that Havells is willing 
Havells India Limited
20
Havells Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Committee has been established as a strategic approach to Risk Management, 
helping us to focus on organisational objectives while maintaining compliance with industry standards. The ERM strategy 
supports Havells’ growth plans and enhances stakeholder’s trust by implementing quantifiable risk mitigation measures and 
reducing uncertainty. It also helps cultivate a ‘Risk Awareness Culture’ at all levels across the Company. 
	 Based on materiality of the risk, response strategies are developed and assigned to concerned risk owners
	 Head of risk management works closely with the business and functional team towards identification, evaluation, 
monitoring and reporting of risk response, under the guidance of Leadership Council and ERM Council
	 Update on risk management is presented before the ERM Committee at least twice a year
The Company’s Information Security Management System (ISMS) has been certified with ISO 27001:2022. We also have 
in place an efficient ERM software which enables improved risk visibility, enhanced decision-making, and streamlined 
processes and compliance.
 
Business  
resilience
Enhance  
corporate 
governance
Improved 
communication & 
collaboration
Proactive risk 
management and 
strategic decision-
making
Improved 
operational 
efficiency and 
engagement
ERM Maturity 
Objective 
COSO = Committee of Sponsoring Organisation of the Treadway Commission
RCM = Risk Control Matrix
SOP = Standard Operating Procedure
IFC = Internal Financial Control
2010-11
	 1st ERM meeting
	 Refreshment/ 
Development of SOPs 
across business 
function and location
2011-15
	 Implementation of SOPs
	 Adoption of COSO 
Framework
	 Deployment 
of Compliance 
Management Solution
	 Risk-Based Audit
	 Risk Register & Risk 
Control Matrix
	 Fraud Assessment
2015-20
	 Implementation of SAP 
GRC
	 Adoption of Advanced 
Data Analytics and 
Forensic Tools
	 Testing Design & 
Effectiveness - RCM for 
IFC
	 Focus on Process & 
Control Automation
	 Exceptional Reporting 
& Alert
2020-25
	 ISO 27001 Certification 
for IT & Cyber Security  
	 ERM Software 
implemented  
	 Benchmarking with 
Product segment-wise 
Domestic and Global 
peers – Update Risk 
Profile
	 ERM  Maturity 
Assessment Framework 
	 Risk Appetite/Key Risk 
Indicator framework
ERM Maturity Objective 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
21
Integrated Report
Risk Management
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
COSO Framework 
Governance
Governance  
& Culture
Strategy & 
Objective 
Setting
Review & 
Revision
Information, 
Communication 
& Reporting
ERM Council
Leadership Council
ERM Committee
Board of Directors
S No
Critical Risk
Likelihood
Impact
Velocity
Risk Rating 
1
Risk of business disruption due to geopolitical and economic conditions
Possible
Medium
High
2
Risk of geographical & channel concentration
Unlikely
Medium
Low
3
Risk of Employee Attrition
Likely
Medium
Medium
4
Risk due to climate change and natural resource shortage
Possible
Medium
Medium
5
Risk of not meeting emerging trends / standards - consumers, 
international market and carbon footprint
Likely
Medium
Medium
6
Risk due to dependency on 3rd party for critical technologies & 
technological obsolescence
Possible
Medium
Medium
7
Risk of import dependency and quality control order introduction 
w.r.t. critical components / technology 
Possible
Medium
Medium
8
Risk of ESG non-compliance at suppliers end
Possible
Medium
Low
9
Change in trade policies and government priorities
Possible
Medium
Medium
10
Risk of brand reputation and social media
Possible
Medium
Very high
11
Risk factors in manufacturing operations (dependency on a single 
plant location)
Possible
Medium
High
12
Risk due to workplace safety in manufacturing
Possible
Medium
Very high
13
Labour shortages causing operations disruption
Possible
Medium
High
14
Risk factor in – After-sales services vs brand perception
Possible
Medium
High
15
Adverse outcomes of AI technologies
Possible
Medium
High
16
Risk of cyber threats
Unlikely
Low
Very high
17
Risk of supply disruption / material obsolescence
Possible
Medium
High
18
Risk of product performance vs brand perception 
Possible
Medium
High
19
Risk to Intellectual property and counterfeit products risk 
Possible
Low
Medium
20
Risk of non-compliance to statutory and regulatory provisions
Unlikely
Low
Very high
Risk Rating Matrix
Moderate
Acceptable
ERM Process
Risk 
Prioritisation
Monitoring & 
Reporting
Risk 
Identification
Risk  
Response
Risk 
Assessment
Havells India Limited
22
Risk Assessment Matrix – Residual Risk as on March 2025
Summary - Key Risks & their response
Risk Heat Map is depicting status of the Residual Risks (Inherent Risk – Impact of Risk Controls) highlighted in previous page (Risk Nos. 
represents Serial No. of the previous page) 
The Risk Heat Map depicts the current status of identified risks after counter measures (Risk No. as per Risk Rating Matrix)
Risk of Geographical & 
Channel Concentration
Capitals impacted
Risk Response
Multiple strategies put together help us to meet customer preference, market 
trend and competition:
	 Through Rural Vistaar initiative, Havells has become the most penetrated 
FMEG brand in rural markets with presence of rural distributors in 
3,000+ towns (10k-50k population)
	 Focus on emerging channels such as MFR/RR, CPC/CSD, E-Commerce 
and Quick Commerce
	 Adopted DMDC (Different models for different channels) to avoid conflict 
with existing channels
A brief summary of the key identified risks and their response is mentioned below. We have also mapped the key risks to respective 
capitals highlighting the potential impact.
Sales & Marketing 
Very low
Low
Medium
High 
Very high
Almost Certain
Likely
3,5
Possible
19
1,4,6,7,8,9,10,11, 
12,13,14,15,17,18
Unlikely
16,20
2
Rare
Critical
Acceptable 
Moderate
Impact
Likelihood
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
23
Integrated Report
Risk Management
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Risk factors of ineffective 
succession planning in 
Critical roles 
Risk Response
To take care of the risk of succession planning in critical roles and timely 
onboarding, a number of initiatives have been undertaken. These include:
	 Leadership development programme through “Prateek” and 
“Sankalp” programme
	 Grooming future leaders through “Young Leaders Programme”
	 Empowering, engaging and sharpening skillset
Human Resources Management
Risk of employee 
attrition
There are various programmes/initiatives undertaken by the Company 
with respect to job satisfaction, skill enhancement, employee retention, 
rewards and recognition. Some of the initiatives to minimise employee 
attrition are highlighted below:
	 Structured and systematic functional induction – T-30 to T+30 plan for 
all new joiners, allocation of buddy and regular check-ins
	 Focussing on diversity and wellness 
	 Strengthening Iinternal communications through our in-house 
magazines and handbooks for new joiners
	 Democratising HR processes through HRMS implementation 
investments in employee learning & development responding to 
GPTW feedback
	 Reward and recognition programmes
Capitals impacted
Capitals impacted
Social & Governance which 
include:
	 Climate Change Risk
	 Occupational, Health & 
Safety Risk, Fire Safety
	 Governance Risk
Risk Response
We embed ESG principles across every aspect of our operations to drive 
long-term sustainable value creation. We are committed to neutralising/
offsetting our emissions, have a low social risk as part of our commitment 
to driving positive social change. Measures have been taken such as:
	 Initiation of Net Zero journey to address climate change risk
	 Attained Zero Waste to Landfill Certification
	 Continued recognition by leading framework and indices 
	 Our manufacturing plants are ISO 14001, 45001 and 50001 certified
Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG)
Capitals impacted
Havells India Limited
24
	 Risk of lag in meeting 
emerging consumer 
trends
	 Risk due to dependency 
on third party for critical 
technologies
Risk Response
The Company initiates several projects to increase its technological 
capabilities and innovative products in order to keep up with market 
trends and consumer needs. The initiatives taken include:
	 Alignment with the consumer preferences and driving product 
innovations accordingly
	 In-house ownership roadmap in-place for critical technologies and 
regular updates in technologies
	 Pro-active monitoring and timely mitigation of emerging standards
	 Process, infrastructure and advance methodologies updates to 
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of new product development
	 Ensuring compliance to emerging regulations and standards
	 Support localisation of products to reduce import dependence
	 Roadmap-driven approach for aligning with organisational ESG goals
Centre for Research & Innovations
Capitals impacted
	 Risk of Import 
Dependency
	 Financial Risks - 
Commodity & Currency 
Fluctuation
	 Government Policy 
Changes & Trade 
Restrictions and its 
impact on Purchasing
	 Risk of ESG Non-
Compliance at 
Supplier’s End
Risk Response
Measures to mitigate import dependency include:
	 Ensuring a sustainable supply chain, identification of alternate 
sourcing avenues for critical parts and regularly evaluating the  
raw materials
	 Assessing backward integration to be self-sufficient and in control of 
the quality of the raw materials 
	 De-risking from single source to dual source
	 Import dependency has been reduced to less than 8% of total 
sourcing
	 Domestic tie-up with Guangdong Meizhi Compressor Limited 
(GMCC), contract is in place for domestic supplies
Procurement & Supplier Management
Capitals impacted
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
25
Integrated Report
Risk Management
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Risk on Brand Positioning, 
Social Media & Brand 
Reputation
Risk Response
Continuous focus on monitoring the Brand Perceptions, online brand reputation, 
driving brand perception and online positive sentiment and engagement 
outcomes. Various creative measures are implemented to address the relevant 
business risk, such as:
	 Monitoring the Brand Perceptions
	 Monitoring the Mind measure trend
	 Monitoring the Online Brand Reputation. Tracking via Social Listening Tool  
(ORM) - ‘LocoBuzz’
	 Online reputation management enabling timely resolution of customer 
grievances, sentiment analysis and user feedback
	 Positive sentiment monitoring is conducted via digital & performance 
marketing, B2B engagements, including seminars and exhibitions 
and campaigns
	 Monitoring the customer grievances, sentiments and user feedback via 
online reputation management
Marketing (Marcom)
Capitals impacted
Risk of Brand Reputation 
due to unsatisfactory 
customer service
Risk Response
To deliver exceptional customer experience and maintaining strong brand 
sentiment, we have :
	 Increased the network coverage on district and partner level
	 Increased spare parts availability and real-time visibility through D365 module
	 Registration of service requests is available 24*7 throughout the year via 
various channels
	 Continuous monitoring for customer loyalty cum satisfaction index through 
NPS methodology
	 Extensive use of new-edge technologies for customer experience
	 Service personnel are trained through online and offline medium on both 
aspects – technical and soft skills
	 More than 80% of customer calls are resolved within 24 hours
After-Sales Service
Capitals impacted
Manufacturing
Risk factors in 
manufacturing operations 
(dependency on a single 
plant location)
Risk Response 
	 FG Stock Storage : Balanced inventory within plant location and at outside warehouses
	 Back-up readiness with Traded Sources
	 Localisation of import parts and reducing lead time to develop at alternate location
Labour shortages causing 
operations disruption
	 Multi-channel sourcing
	 Engineering improvement projects, automation and other methods to reduce 
dependency on skilled manpower
Risk due to workplace 
safety in manufacturing
	 Independent EHS Audit and regular follow-up inspection
	 HIRA (Hazard Identification and Risk Analysis) for all activities for reducing risk 
to acceptable risk
	 Real-time connect through “Havells Safety” App
	 Daily reporting on safety practices
Capitals impacted
Havells India Limited
26
Risk of Supply Disruption & 
Inventory Obsolescence
Risk Response
Supply Chain Management is considered as one of the critical focus area, some 
of the steps taken to address risk of supply disruption & efficient working capital 
management are:
	 Increased safety and security controls in warehouses
	 Improvements in Omni-channel Servicing Capability
	 SKU rationalisation & liquidation of aged inventories
	 Production and Despatch through automation (IBP)
	 Usage of advanced forecasting tools
	 SKU rationalisation & liquidation of aged inventories
	 Established an integrated and flexible network to meet business requirements
Supply Chain Management
Capitals impacted
Risk of Cyber Threats 
Adverse outcomes of 
Aritifical Intelligence (AI) 
technologies
Risk Response
Defence-in-depth strategy is adopted to create cyber security resilience. The 
safeguard measures includes:
	 Deployment of role-based access control and zero trust network access
	 Deployment of SASE (Security Access Service Edge) and Next-Gen SIEM
	 Data leakage and privacy protection
	 Dedicated SOC (Security Operation Centre) and NOC (Network Operation 
Centre)
	 3rd party risk management solution 
Measures to enhance cyber resilience include:
	 Company’s information security management system is ISO 27001:2022 
certified
	 Implementation of Business Continuity Plan (BCP) for business 
applications
	 DC & DR sites are in different seismic zones
	 Deployment of digital risk, brand protection platform, threat intelligence & 
cyber risk rating platform
	 Conducting regular user education & awareness programme which 
includes both online & offline trainings, Email flyers and phishing attack 
Mock Drills
AI technologies:
	 AI policy has been drafted
	 Use of enterprise AI tools and focus on internal use cases such as 
productivity, content creation, procurement. Initiated Production Pilot of AI 
Tools for business users and IT Developers
	 Build a culture of AI to be used for operational tasks and as a 
supplementary resource
Information & Cyber Security
Capitals impacted
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
27
Integrated Report
Risk Management
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Risk Response
Committed to delivering high-quality, safe, and reliable products that meet customer 
expectations and regulatory standards. The organisation prioritises proactive 
measures to manage product defects and safety failures and has a low-risk appetite 
on reputation, customer trust and compliance violations. Other measures to uphold 
our quality standards include:
	 Well-documented process, system and IT integration
	 Strategic initiatives to drive customer-centric quality, trade & distribution quality, 
customer experience labs and built-in-quality
	 Maintaining a high level of people and supplier engagement through various initiatives
Quality Management
Risk factors in Product 
Quality –  Product 
Performance vs Brand 
Perception
Capitals impacted
Risk Response
Strict policies and measures are in place to ensure compliance with the relevant laws 
and regulations:
	 The Company follows a ‘Zero Tolerance’ policy with respect to non-compliance
	 Quarterly compliance status, along with exception (if any) is reported to senior 
management, Audit Committee & Board of Directors
	 Consequence Management Grid has been established
	 Quarterly review by the Internal Audit team (both in-house as well as outsourced) 
is conducted
	 Monthly submission of delayed compliances / non-compliances to the management 
	 Compliance refresh is done as and when applicable or on half yearly basis, 
whichever is earlier
Audit & Compliance
Risk of Non-Compliance to
Statutory & Regulatory 
Provisions
Capitals impacted
Risk to Intellectual Property 
& Counterfeit Products
Violations of Legal 
Metrology Act and 
Packaged Commodities 
Rules 2011
Risk Response
Counterfeit goods and intellectual property are both protected by a 
well‑established system:
	 IP’s such as trademarks, logos, patents, and design of our products are 
protected by registering under relevant Acts
	 To protect intellectual property, appropriate measures are taken with respect to 
civil & criminal actions, both in India and internationally
	 To reduce product counterfeit, spot raids are conducted on manufacturers of 
fake products (domestic/international) on a periodic basis
	 Regular discussions with various teams for timely implementation of Metrology law
	 Preparation and Circulation of the Legal Metrology Template to be used by all 
plants and vendors for mentioning MRP and connected details
	 Awareness through for trainings/advisory on individual levels with respect to 
Legal Metrology to Quality teams/Warehouse teams and Domestic Vendors
	 Thorough review of artworks, from Legal Metrology perspective on Artwork Portal
	 Ensuring prompt action in emergency cases
Legal
Capitals impacted
Havells India Limited
28
ESG
ESG JOURNEY
2012-2016
  Published First Sustainability Report including reporting of GHG 
Emission (Scope 1 & 2) in line with GRI standards
 2016-2020
	 Installation of First Solar Plant at Alwar- 
Inaugural step towards renewable energy 
transition
	 Ranked 7th globally in Electrical category 
(Dow Jones) 
	 Started publishing Scope 3 GHG 
Emissions (Employee computing)
Current year
	 Installed solar power capacity of 15.6 MW
	 Zero Liquid Discharge system installed at  
Sricity Plant
	 Initiated LCA journey to support our Product 
Sustainability Roadmap
	 Installed Bio Compost Plants at our factories
	 Continued certification of Zero Waste to Landfill 
from Intertek
ESG 2.0
ESG 1.0
2020-2024
	 All Havells operation sites were ISO 14001 
& 50001 certified 
	 Voluntarily published our first BRSR report 
with leadership indicators
	 Installed solar energy capacity of 9 MW
	 Published ESG targets in annual report
	 Filed CDP disclosures with “B” rating in 
water security disclosure (above global 
average) and “C” in Climate change 
disclosures (global average)
	 Rolled out the Supplier ESG Assessment 
framework
	 Attained Zero-waste to landfill certification
	 Increased our reporting boundaries from 
plants to include branch offices and 
warehouses
	 Initiated our journey towards Net-zero 
roadmap (Including Scope 3 inventorisation)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
29
Integrated Report
ESG
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
ESG Ratings and Recognitions
We are consistently recognised for our structured ESG efforts by reputed ESG rating agencies
S&P (Global) ESG ranking
Sustainalytics (Global) 
We have been consistently ranked in the top 10 
global companies in the electrical equipment sector
Recognised in top 50 Yearbook member from India 
in 2025
The “C” rating in climate change suggests that 
Havells’ performance in addressing climate-related 
issues is comparable to the average performance of 
reporting companies
“Climate Change Disclosure 2023”
Average performance
Metal products 
manufacturing
Global 
Average
Asia
Havells CDP Score
C
C
C
C
The “B” rating in water security is higher than the Asia 
regional average of “C”, and higher than the Metal 
products manufacturing sector average of “C”
“Water Security Disclosure 2023”
Average performance
Metal products 
manufacturing
Global 
Average
Asia
Havells CDP Score
B
C
C
C
CDP Reporting
Havells India Limited
30
Zero Waste to Landfill 
Certificate by Intertek
Corporate Governance 
Rating by CareEdge
CareEdge Advisory Research and Training (CART) 
assigned Corporate Governance Rating of ‘CG 2+’ 
(CG Two plus) to Havells India Limited
MSCI (Global): 
The FTSE4 Good Index 
Series identifies companies 
that demonstrate strong 
environmental, social and 
governance practices 
measured against globally 
recognised standards
FTSE4Good (Global)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
31
Integrated Report
ESG
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Stakeholder Engagement
SHARED VALUE CREATION 
FOR ALL STAKEHOLDERS
Engaging actively with our stakeholders aligns us with their evolving 
needs, queries and expectations, helping us to address them effectively 
to build trust and lasting relationships. The collaboration further helps 
us to gain diverse perspectives and capture feedback, in turn helping us 
remain ahead in the constantly evolving business landscape.
How we engage with our 
shareholders/investors 
	 Annual general meeting
	 Results press release
	 Earnings / analysts calls
	 Disclosures tools (annual report, 
BRSR, websites
Engagement Topics 
	 Company performance
	 Profitability
	 Sustainable business model
	 Long-term growth strategy
	 Value creation
	 Cost efficiencies
	 Transparent and ethical business practices
	 Strong governance
Shareholders/
Investors
How we engage with our 
customers 
	 Customer service
	 Marketing campaigns
	 Social media engagements
	 Webinars
	 Website
	 Customer feedback
	 Offline engagement activities
Engagement Topics 
	 Product quality and sustainability
	 Product innovation
	 Proactive grievance handling
	 Superior customer experience
	 Quick response to pricing and 
technical queries
Customers
How we engage with our 
employees 
	 Company newsletter
	 Internal emails
	 Intranet
	 Training and safety programmes
	 Employee surveys
	 Rewards and recognitions
Engagement Topics 
	 Organisational purpose
	 Employee benefits and policy
	 Career development opportunities
	 Learning and development
	 Diversity and inclusion
	 Equal opportunities
	 Occupational health and safety
	 Wealth creation
Employees
Havells India Limited
32
How we engage with our 
communities 
	 CSR activities
	 Surveys to assess community 
impact
	 Public hearings
	 Complaints and grievance redressal
Engagement Topics 
	 Creating livelihood opportunities
	 Skilling and upskilling beneficiaries
	 Community welfare initiatives for 
better education and health, hygiene 
and sanitation facilities
	 Sustainable operations
Communities
How we engage with our 
bankers/other financial 
institutions
	 Credit rating surveys
	 Annual report
Engagement Topics 
	 Credit rating
	 Sustainable business model
	 Transparent financial disclosures
	 Governance
	 Timely debt servicing
Bankers & other 
financial institutions
How we engage with 
government & regulatory 
agencies
	 Regular compliance report
	 Statutory audit
Engagement Topics 
	 Timely disclosures as mandated by 
the government
	 Effective compliance to laws
	 Initiatives taken towards protecting 
the environment, employee 
generation and nation development
Government & 
regulatory agencies
How we engage with our media 
	 Press conferences
	 Management interviews
	 Media meets
	 Thought leadership
	 Thematic articles
	 Media queries response
Engagement Topics 
	 Sharing important announcements 
and relevant information meant for 
mass stakeholder
Media
How we engage with our 
dealers
	 Dealer meets
	 Dealer surveys
	 Dealer feedbacks
	 Welfare schemes
	 Training and education
Engagement Topics 
	 Building long-term relationship
	 Sustained growth prospects
	 Ethical contract terms and 
transparent practices
	 Technical knowledge exchange and 
other collaborations
Dealers
How we engage with our 
vendors
	 Supplier meetings
	 Contract negotiations
	 Supplier code of conduct, policies 
and standards
Engagement Topics 
	 Strategic and enduring 
collaborations
	 Sustained growth prospects
	 Dissemination of relevant information
	 Sharing technical knowledge and 
other collaborations
	 Skill development support
Vendors
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
33
Integrated Report
Stakeholder Engagement
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Materiality
MATERIALITY FRAMEWORK:  
ADDRESSING KEY BUSINESS PRIORITIES 
Committed to responsible value creation for our stakeholders, we 
have designed a well-defined materiality framework which ensures 
timely and accurate identification and management of relevant 
material issues across diverse business functions and activities. 
Five-Step Methodology
Identify
Used ESG 
frameworks and 
standards, ESG 
ratings, and peer 
benchmarking 
to recognise 
potentially 
relevant issues
Strategise
Incorporate 
these factors 
in the overall 
business strategy
Communicate 
the new strategy 
to all relevant 
stakeholders
Manage
Recognise significant 
environmental, social 
and governance risks 
and opportunities
Determine areas 
for target setting to 
improve business 
and sustainability 
performance
Score
Fresh ranking of 
issues based on the 
weighted average 
score achieved by 
each issue
Separate score 
assigned to each 
material issue based 
on the response
Rank
Issues ranked 
according to 
importance 
based on 
management and 
employee surveys
100+ responses 
received from 
participants 
Identifying what matters most
A comprehensive approach involving an ESG materiality survey followed by a series of measures was adopted to identify 
the most relevant material topics to create sustainable stakeholder value.
An ESG materiality survey was conducted and various material topics were shortlisted for consideration. More than 
100 participants, including the management and senior leadership team, participated in the survey.
A framework score, industry score, survey score, risk score and management score 
was assigned to each of the shortlisted material topics.
Business 
Responsibility 
and Sustainability 
Report (BRSR)
Global 
Reporting 
Initiative (GRI)
Sustainability 
Accounting 
Standards Board 
(SASB)
Dow Jones 
Sustainability 
Indices (DJSI)
Morgan 
Stanley Capital 
International 
(MSCI)
Sustainalytics
Frameworks considered for identifying the material topics included:
Various domestic and international companies in the electrical equipment and 
appliances space were considered to determine the industry score.
Havells India Limited
34
Climate strategy and action 
M1   
Build resilience to minimise the impact of climate change 
on business activities and supply chain. Ensure that 
manufacturing and usage of our products yield low carbon 
footprints and carbon intensity.
Product stewardship 
M6   
Manufacture high-quality products that are safe, durable, 
repairable and serviceable. Foster sustainability by optimising 
resource utilisation across the product lifecycle.
Water and air quality 
M4   
Conserving water and using it judiciously is our key priority. 
We are also committed to maintaining air quality in and 
around our premises.
Circular economy and waste management 
M7   
We aspire to achieve zero waste to landfill by responsible 
end-of-life disposal of our products. The 5Rs approach 
(reduce, reuse, recycle, recover and residual management) 
is adopted to enable this.
Environmental
Material Topics
Environmental
E
Social
S
Governance
G
Distribution network 
& channels
G
Circular economy and 
waste management
E
Water stewardship and 
air quality improvement
E
Biodiversity
E
Responsible digitalisation 
& technology use
S
Brand integrity & 
salience
G
Sustainable 
packaging
E
Human rights and CSR
S
Customer and other 
stakeholders’ delight
G
Sustainable sourcing 
and vendor management
G
Capacity utilisation 
& market presence
G
Governance and ethical 
business conduct
G
Product 
stewardship
E
Innovation R&D
G
Climate strategy 
& action
E
Occupational health 
and safety
S
Human capital 
development
S
Sustainable manufacturing to achieve 
low carbon footprint product
E
In increasing order of priority
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
35
Integrated Report
Materiality
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Human capital development 
M2
Empower our employees through effective learning & 
development, leadership and succession planning, employee 
engagement, fair treatment and diversity and inclusion, 
among other favourable initiatives and policies.
Governance and ethical business conduct 
M3
Drive accountability and maintain ethical integrity while 
pursuing our economic interests.
Occupational health and safety 
M5
Foster employee well-being by providing a safe, sound and 
healthy work environment to all employees.
Responsible digitalisation and technology use M13
Ensure business continuity and protect personal data 
integrity through efficient IT risk management and robust 
contingency planning.
Customer and other stakeholders’ delight M14
Our stakeholders form the core of our value creation. We 
believe in creating value and equitable wealth for our 
stakeholders through our business process.
Human rights and CSR M12
Uphold human rights and undertake ongoing initiatives 
for uplifting the society as per the UN Declaration of 
Human Rights.
Distribution network and channels M10
Implement an omni-channel strategy to reach out to a larger 
consumer base across diverse locations.
Capacity utilisation and market presence 
M9
Capacity utilisation is directly correlated to market demand 
and Company’s presence. It is the percentage a plant is 
actually generating compared to its maximum potential
Social
Governance
Brand integrity and salience M15
Enhance consumer trust, ensure strong brand recall and 
build a positive image of the Company and its products 
across different categories in the consumers’ mind.
Innovation and R&D 
M8
Continuously focus on innovation to stay current and relevant 
in the ever-evolving business landscape, meet consumer 
expectation and achieve sustained growth.
Sustainable sourcing and vendor management M18
Sustainable procurement, supply chain resilience, local 
vendor management.
Havells India Limited
36
Robust Sustainability Model
Stakeholder value creation is at the core of all that we think, plan and do. Our sustainability model, by integrating the ESG 
principles into our business operations, helps us to focus on and address critical material issues having maximum impact on our 
financial performance and stakeholder interest.
Robust Compliance Mechanism
We are governed by a robust compliance mechanism that ensures adherence to the relevant statutory laws and regulations. The 
mechanism ensures no discrimination and child labour or forced labour within the Company.
During the year, no material fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed on the Company for non-compliance with 
environmental laws and regulations. There were no incidents of non-compliance or fines levied with respect to the regulations or 
voluntary codes relating to the health and safety impacts of Havells’ products and services, products related communication and 
product information disclosure and labelling.
Strategy
	 Climate strategy & 
action
	 Human capital 
development
	 Governance and ethical 
business conduct
	 Water and air quality
	 Occupational health and 
safety
	 Product stewardship
	 Circular economy and 
waste management
	 Innovation R&D
	 Sustainable 
sourcing and vendor 
management
	 Human rights and CSR
	 Responsible 
digitalisation & 
technology use
	 Customer and other 
stakeholders’ delight
	 Brand integrity & 
salience
	 Capacity utilisation & 
market presence
	 Distribution network & 
channels
Stakeholder
value creation
Societal  
impact
Long-term 
performance
Material topics
Policies &
procedures
Stakeholder 
engagement
Resource 
input
Environmental
Social
Governance
ESG
Business System
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
37
Integrated Report
Materiality
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Financial Capital
ROOTED IN FINANCIAL PRUDENCE. 
MAXIMISING VALUE CREATION.
At Havells, we believe that a strong financial foundation 
is essential to drive our long-term growth aspirations. Our 
financial capital is underpinned by prudent capital allocation, 
sustained revenue and profit growth, and strong cash 
flow generation. Robust risk management and corporate 
governance further ensure that the value we create is 
meaningful and enduring.
SDGs Impacted
Risk 
Management
Strong Cash
Flows and
Leaner Balance 
Sheet
Prudent  
Capital 
Allocation
Sustainable
Revenue and 
Profit Growth
Robust 
Corporate 
Governance
Cost
Efficiencies
Strengthening 
Financial Capital
Havells India Limited
38
Havells India Limited
38
Driving enduring success through strategic capital allocation
We maintain a balance between 
consistent dividend distribution, 
reinvestment in growth opportunities 
and retention of earnings. This 
disciplined approach has supported 
sustained value creation for 
stakeholders while enhancing resilience 
against external uncertainties.
During the year, supported by healthy 
cash generation, the Company 
strengthened its cash and cash 
equivalents position. It also enhanced 
shareholder returns by increasing its 
dividend, including interim dividend to 
` 10 per share (subject to shareholders 
approval) from ` 9 per share in the 
previous year. Havells generated cash 
of ` 2,479 crores and distributed ` 627 
crores as dividend to its shareholders. 
The Company further built on its 
manufacturing capabilities by paying 
` 753 crores for capital expenditure 
during the year. The working capital 
requirements also increased with 
expansion in business scale and 
inherent seasonality of certain product 
segments.  
Reflecting our strong financial position, 
CARE Ratings reaffirmed the highest 
credit ratings - CARE AAA [Triple 
A] rating to our long-term facilities 
and CARE A1+ [A One Plus] to 
short-term facilities.
Cash Sources
Allocated to
Cash Generation
Cash Utilisation 
` 2,479 crores
` 2,141 crores
Operating Profit 
` 2,281 crores
Other (incl other income)  
` 198 crores
Tax  
` 505 crores
Capex 
` 753 crores 
Dividend 
` 627 crores
Investment in 
subsidiary
` 42 crores
Change in 
operating assets 
and liabilities  
` 215 crores
1st April, 2024 cash ` 3,015 crores
31st March, 2025 cash ` 3,353 crores
Economic Value Creation
(` crores)
Particulars 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Revenue generated (includes other Income)
22,048
18,799
Economic value distributed (i+ ii+iii+iv+v)
21,172
17,951
Operating costs (i)
18,112
15,472
Employee benefits (ii)
1,852
1,541
Payments to providers of capital (iii)
670
516
Direct taxes paid (iv)
505
392
CSR expenditure (v)
32
30
Economic value generated 
877
848
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
39
Integrated Report
Financial Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Our Performance
Revenue (` crores)
21,746
18,550
16,868
13,889
10,428
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
Earnings per share (in `)
23.75
20.32
17.16
19.08
16.61
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
Dividend payout (%)
42
44
44
39
39
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
Net worth (` crores)
8,331
7,438
6,614
5,989
5,164
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
Cash and bank balance  (` crores)
3,353
3,015
2,158
2,982
1,931
ROCE (%)*
26
25
23
28
30
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
*ROCE (%) = EBIT / Average Capital Employed (Net Worth + Gross Debt)
EBITDA (` crores)
2,149
1,845
1,603
1,758
1,565
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
PAT (` crores) 
1,489
1,273
1,075
1,195
1,040
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
Havells India Limited
40
Manufactured Capital
ROOTED IN QUALITY.  
DRIVING EXCELLENCE.
Excellence in product quality is our top priority and a 
promise we are deeply committed to. We deliver on this 
through our backward integrated manufacturing facilities, 
backed by continuous innovation and deployment of 
advanced technologies. Each product manufactured at 
Havells ensures customer delight and furthers our credibility 
as a leading Fast Moving Electrical Goods (FMEG) and 
Consumer Durables Company.
SDGs Impacted
Manufacturing Operations at Havells
At Havells, we strongly believe in ‘Make in India’ philosophy, 
embodied through integrated manufacturing across all our 
manufacturing facilities. Deployment of the latest technology, 
supported with use of interconnected systems, automation, 
robotics, and digitisation, is helping us ensure efficient use 
of resources across our manufacturing operations while 
driving high-quality and production efficiency. By optimising 
performance across various manufacturing aspects 
such as design, production, quality control, supply chain 
management, and logistics, we are building a seamless 
system, directed towards operational excellence.
Focus Areas
Strategic adoption of MES (Manufacturing Execution 
System) has enabled us to champion real-time monitoring, 
controlled process capability and fault free products while 
deskilling operations. Additionally, supply chain integration 
ensures smooth coordination between suppliers, factory and 
distribution network, therefore optimising inventories and 
ensuring adequate stock for seamless sales. 
Quality  
Commitment
Capacity & 
Capability 
Enhancement
Driving
Synergy
Building Skills 
& Reliability
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
41
Integrated Report
Manufactured Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Havells Commitment to Quality
Quality excellence is at the core of everything we do and 
is being driven through customer-centric quality, process 
discipline and simplification, supplier quality and competence 
and engagement. 
A close loop process of consistently tracking, analysing 
and improving warranty returns and complaints is fuelling 
customer-centric quality across our products and facilities. 
Another aspect that ensures consistent product quality is 
our  sustained focus on ‘Built in Quality’, a mantra deeply 
embedded in our manufacturing culture and deployed across 
all manufacturing processes to ensure robust controls through 
automation and foolproofing. 
Enhancing Capabilities  
In 2021, Havells established a washing machine manufacturing set-up at Ghiloth, Rajasthan with a single line of semi-
automatic washing machines. In 2024, we added a state-of-the-art modern manufacturing set-up for production of Fully 
Automatic Top Load Machine. Our strategy included backward integration of operations, significantly helping us ensure better 
quality and control on the supply chain. All major sheet metals and moulding parts are being produced in-house.
Employee competence and engagement is driven through 
various programmes like ‘Wise Hands’, ‘Golden Hands’, 
‘Kaizen’ and ‘Quality Circles’. ‘Quality Circle’ plays a vital 
role in spreading a culture of continuous improvement by 
engaging and empowering employees to identify work-related 
problems and move towards resolving the same through the 
PDCA cycle. To nurture skill, recognise and to motivate, we 
conduct intra and inter plant competitions and recognise the 
best. Our quality circle teams are actively participating and 
winning awards across national platforms.
Havells India Limited
42
Building skills. Improving reliability   
LED technology has revolutionised the lighting industry in recent decades, offering unprecedented energy efficiency, durability, 
and versatility. Having said that, the LED manufacturing landscape is constantly evolving, driven by continuous search for 
improvements in performance, costs and sustainability.
Skill enhancement is vital to achieve desired productivity and quality in any consumer lighting/EMS plant. At Havells, we 
identified lack of adequate hand-soldering skill as a critical operator-level bottleneck in our plants. Considering its high Impact 
on the quality and reliability of our products, we started “Soldering School” for skill enhancement. The initiative covers a range 
of soldering technologies including through – hole, surface mount soldering, lap soldering of electronic components, etc.
We have commenced manufacturing of new strip lights on the newly established Flexi Strip Surface Mount Technology 
(SMT) machine. This offers versatility & precise assembly of electronic components on flexible strip circuits. 
Building synergies: Enhancing our manufacturing set-up   
To build synergy and enhance our switchgear production capacity, the operation at Faridabad plant was integrated with 
the Sahibabad plant during the year.  A state-of-the-art powder coating facility was also commissioned as part of our 
commitment to capacity enhancement. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
43
Integrated Report
Manufactured Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Human Capital
ROOTED IN VALUES. GEARED FOR 
ENDLESS POSSIBILITIES.
We are a people-first company. Caring deeply for the 
success and well-being of our employees is rooted in our 
core values. This is brought to life through a holistic approach 
to employee growth, fair and inclusive policies, tailored 
employee development initiatives and talent programmes. 
To institutionalise our philosophy, we have defined a robust 
Human Capital strategy. Our Human Capital strategy is built 
on six key pillars encompassing: strategic workforce planning, 
values-based practices, talent management and process 
excellence, employee experience, and inclusive leadership. 
Together, these pillars define a culture that nurtures talent 
and drives innovation, enabling all employees to unlock their 
potential and make sustainable progress.
SDGs Impacted
Our People, Our Pride
Unlocking Human Potential
At Havells, each member of the team 
is a contributor and a creator of our 
success story. Together, we are shaping 
our leadership in India’s Fast-Moving 
Electrical Goods (FMEG) and Consumer 
Durables industry. As a true people-
steward, we are focussed on creating 
an environment where individuals thrive, 
contribute meaningfully, and grow 
with Havells – strengthening not just 
our organisation but also the shared 
purpose that unites us.
New Employees 
Hired
1,836
Male Employees 
6,662
Total Employees 
Strength
7,117
Female Employees 
455
Strategic Workforce Planning  
and Performance Management
Values-based Culture and 
institutionalising values in 
People Practices 
Talent Management & Development
Employee Experience
People Process Excellence and 
Data-based Decision-making
Distributed Leadership, Diversity & Inclusion
Havells India Limited
44
Strategic Workforce Planning
New Hire and Turnover Rate
Note: The table above provides a breakdown of our new hires and employee turnover in FY 2024-25 with respect to gender, age and region.
P1
Strategic Workforce 
Planning: Building a Future-
Ready Organisation 
A future-ready workforce is the key 
to driving sustained growth and 
innovation. The Strategic Workforce 
Planning (SWP) lever ensures that 
we have the right talent with the right 
skills at the right time. Embedded in 
our business strategy, SWP helps 
us anticipate evolving talent needs, 
optimise workforce structure, and build 
succession readiness.
Technological evolution is a critical 
component in preparing us for the 
future. Making progress on our journey 
to digital transformation, we are now 
leveraging the benefits of enterprise 
management applications for internal 
dashboards, people analytics and 
tracking of workforce trends and 
assessing skill gaps. Our advanced, 
data-driven approach has facilitated 
informed decision-making with respect 
to hiring, upskilling, reskilling, and 
internal mobility. This aligns talent supply 
with business demand and enables 
forecasting future talent requirements.
SWP is about addressing capacity 
as well as capability imperatives. 
Moving ahead, we aspire to adopt 
newer technologies and lead emerging 
product categories. For this, we 
continually invest in leadership and 
capability-building programmes. 
Initiatives like Sankalp, Prateek, and 
Step Up are designed to enable leaders 
in evolving roles against the backdrop of 
enterprise transformation.
We ensure that Havells remains 
competitive in changing times while 
fostering a culture of continuous 
learning and growth. 
Early Career Programmes: 
Strengthening Internal Talent 
Mobility and Talent Pipeline
We continue to strengthen internal 
mobility frameworks to match emerging 
opportunities with internal talent. By 
efficiently mapping the competencies 
and aspirations of our employees, we 
enable smooth career progression, 
increase employee retention, and 
reduce ‘time-to-fill’ for key roles. 
Programmes like the Havells Young 
Leaders Programme (HYLP) and 
Summer Internship projects are key 
components of the SWP lever of the 
Human Capital strategy. Our strategic 
workforce planning efforts are aligned 
with our commitment to diversity, 
equity, and inclusion, helping us to 
ensure that workforce decisions are fair, 
future – focussed, and reflective of the 
diverse communities we serve.
New Hire and Turnover Rate for FY 2024-25
Category
Unit
FY 2024-25
Annual Trends
Age Group
Gender
Region
FY 
2024-25
FY 
 2023-24
FY 
2022-23
<30
30-50
>50
Male
Female
Corporate 
office 
(HO+CRI)
Plants
Branch 
offices
Employees hired
No.
588
1,220
28
1,652
184
420
320
1,096
1,836
1,831
1,137
Rate of New Hires %
Rate
61.80%
22.64%
4.88%
25.40%
44.88%
25.37%
25.85%
27.26%
26.55%
28.60%
19.87%
Employees separated
No.
248
1,089
94
1,340
91
262
269
900
1,431
1,209
1,024
Turnover Rate for 
Employees %
Rate
26.06%
20.21%
16.39%
20.60%
22.20%
15.83%
21.73%
22.38%
20.70%
18.89%
17.87%
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
45
Values-Based Culture & Institutionalising Values In People Practices
P2
Success at Havells transcends the 
boundaries of innovation and financial 
performance to encompass a strong 
and enriching value-based culture. 
Our core values – Entrepreneurship, 
Customer-Centricity, Ethics & 
Governance, Humility & Simplicity, 
Empathy, and Equality – serve as the 
foundation of our identity, shaping 
behaviours, guiding decisions, and 
fostering a shared sense of purpose to 
achieve long-term, sustainable success.
We are committed to institutionalising 
these values across all people 
practices, ensuring that they are 
deeply embedded in our policies, 
leadership development strategies, 
and day-to-day operations. Through 
structured programmes and initiatives, 
we empower employees to lead with 
integrity, embrace accountability, 
and contribute meaningfully to our 
collective vision.
Values workshop: Bringing our values to life
During the year, we deepened our commitment to embed our core values across the organisation through Values 
Workshops, engaging nearly 3,000 employees in reflective, interactive sessions. By fostering a strong sense of belonging 
and purpose, these workshops aimed to translate our six core values into lived experiences and actionable behaviours. 
In doing so, the sessions shaped value-based leadership, and strengthened Havells’ collective identity, nurturing a culture 
where integrity, excellence, and inclusivity thrive.
Ethics & Governance
– A commitment to set highest standards 
for our business based on mutual trust and 
professional integrity 
Entrepreneurship
– A commitment to grow relentlessly displaying 
owner’s mindset to deliver best-in-class 
products & services
01
04
Customer-Centricity 
– A commitment to put our customers at the 
centre of everything we do & surpass their 
expectations
Humility and Simplicity
– A commitment to be sincere, open, honest 
& truthful in our dealings 
02
05
Empathy
– A commitment to care and respect for all our 
stakeholders
03
Equality
– A commitment to work in an egoless, 
boundaryless manner
06
Value Pillars
Havells India Limited
46
Nurturing Ownership, Accountability, and Entrepreneurial Spirit
At Havells, entrepreneurship is the value that drives 
innovation, accountability, and continuous improvement. 
This idea is embodied in our people philosophy, 
Khelen Hum Jee Jaan Se (KHJJS) – Aspiration to 
Achievement – where employees are nurtured to aspire 
boldly, challenge boundaries and deliver with ownership. 
Unlike conventional top-down goal setting, KHJJS 
fosters a bottom-up approach to growth, empowering 
teams to take initiative and make strong contributions.
Our value of entrepreneurship fosters a culture of trust, 
autonomy, and calculated risk-taking, where employees 
are encouraged to think creatively, experiment 
confidently, and learn from challenges. Rooted in this 
ethos, the Employee Ownership Plan (EOP), launched 
in 2022, extends coverage to all employees, reinforcing 
our belief that they are true partners in Havells’ long-
term journey. 
KHJJS and values-based culture shape a workforce that 
is inspired, empowered, and invested in Havells’ future.
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
47
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Talent Management & Development
P3
Our talent philosophy focusses on 
building a robust pipeline of skilled 
professionals and future leaders’ 
through systematic investments in 
development of human potential. 
Five key primacies guide our talent 
management efforts: recruitment, 
capability building, enrichment, 
enlargement, and diversity, keeping 
people at the core of our growth.
Propelling a high-trust, high-
performance environment, we 
enable seamless knowledge-sharing, 
structured learning, cross-functional 
collaboration, and continuous 
leadership development ensuring 
strategic vision and execution are 
tightly coupled.
Recruitment: Hiring with 
Purpose and Cultural 
Alignment
Our recruitment process leverages 
technological expertise to ensure that 
every new hire at Havells aligns with 
the organisational culture and brings 
essential experience and expertise to 
the jobs.  We focus on role fitment and 
employee’s potential to serve Havells’ 
long goals. Recruitment strategy 
ensures finding the right talent over 
best talent.
Havells Young Leaders 
Programme (HYLP): Building 
Tomorrow’s Leaders Today
Recognising the importance of nurturing 
early-career talent, we continue to 
invest in the ‘Havells Young Leaders 
Programme (HYLP)’. Our flagship 
campus recruitment and leadership 
development initiative, HYLP helps us 
onboard high-potential management 
trainees from premier institutes 
nationwide. 
HYLP is designed to provide employees 
with a wider exposure to core business 
operations, focussing on experiential 
learning, mentoring, and functional 
rotation. By providing context and 
capability, the programme builds a 
strong pipeline of future-ready leaders, 
aligned with Havells’ long-term vision. 
Havells India Limited
48
Havells Learning Academy serves as the cornerstone of our capability-building strategy, offering 
curated learning programmes tailored to various leadership tiers: 
Havells Learning Academy: Developing Leaders at Every Level
Our flagship initiative for leaders, Sankalp is 
structured in two phases: people leadership 
and business leadership. This year, Sankalp 
introduced Commercial Acumen Workshops, 
reaching 294 managers across business units. 
Notably, 37 of our managers received the “Great 
Manager to Work With™” recognition from the 
Great Manager Institute (GMI). 
Structured modules ensuring consistent, role-relevant 
learning across domains.
Quarterly Learning 
Interventions
Sankalp
CORPORATE FUNCTIONS
CRI
SALES & DISTRIBUTION
MANUFACTURING
MANAGERIAL 
LEARNING
TECHNICAL 
LEARNING
MANAGERIAL 
LEARNING
PRODUCT 
LEARNING
MANAGERIAL 
LEARNING
TECHNICAL 
LEARNING
QUARTERLY
QUARTERLY
QUARTERLY
QUARTERLY
Quarterly Technical 
Learning (QTL)
Focussed on building 
functional excellence 
within manufacturing and 
corporate functions. 
Quarterly Product  
Learning (QPL)
Aimed at enhancing product 
knowledge and market 
readiness for employees in 
sales and distribution. 
Quarterly Managerial 
Learning (QML)
Targeted at developing 
managerial skill sets across  
all functions. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
49
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Each of these initiatives contributes to a leadership ecosystem that is agile, accountable, and aligned with our core values and 
the demands of a dynamic market.
Learning Hours
2,10,627
Increase in 
Learning Hours
2.5X
Participants
7,117
Unique Topics
1,000+
Step Up: Empowering First-Time Managers 
Preparing emerging leaders is essential 
to our leadership development strategy. 
This year saw the launch of ‘Step Up’, a 
structured learning journey designed for over 
70 first-time managers in our R&D verticals.
The initiative hones self-leadership, 
accountability, emotional intelligence, and 
the ability to inspire teams through training, 
mentorship, and real-world application. 
Havells India Limited
50
Havells e-Gurukul: Making Learning Accessible, Personalised, and Continuous
The average training hours per Full Time Employee 
for FY 2024-25 are shown below in the table
Aligned with our digital-first learning strategy, Havells e-Gurukul has become a key enabler of continuous development. 
The platform democratises learning, offering expert and curated content that employees can access anytime, anywhere.
This year, more than 50 new modules were introduced under the initiative, covering Code of Conduct, Ethics, POSH, 
Leadership, Decision-Making, and Personal Effectiveness. With a mobile-first design and user-centric features, e-Gurukul 
seamlessly integrates learning into daily workflows, making development a continuous and self-paced journey and 
enhancing employee functional and behavioural competencies.
The total hours of training 
increased from 91,375.5 hours 
in FY 2023‑24 to 2,10,627 hours 
in FY 2024-25 with average 
hours of training per employee 
increasing from 13.6 hours 
to 29.59 hours.
Note:
1. Details of the total and average number of training hours provided to employees are presented in the table above.
2. The average hours of training per employee has increased by more than 100% compared to the previous financial year.
Training and development
Hours
Total Number of training hours 
2,10,627
Average hours of training per employee: 
Male 
29.12
Female 
36.57
Average hours of training per employee: 
Senior Management
14.68
Middle Management 
26.75
Junior Management 
43.92
Breakdown of hours per employee category
Percentage
Senior/Middle Management 
71.29%
Junior Management 
28.71%
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
51
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Havells India Limited
52
Havells D-Gurukul 
D-Gurukul is a strategic initiative, 
collaboratively driven by Sales, 
Marketing, and Human Resources, 
to enhance the capabilities of our 
channel partners through structured, 
insightful, and engaging learning 
experiences. Over the past year, this 
programme successfully delivered 
over 5,700 training hours to partners 
across the Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, 
Channel Partners & 
Employess (4 Sessions)
Channel Partners & 
Employess (4 Sessions)
UP/UK
Del/Har/Raj/MPCG
3,036
2,702
Sessions
Product Categories Covered: 
Consumer Lighting, Havells Fans, Switches & Automation and BCP
Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, and 
Madhya Pradesh & Chhattisgarh 
(MPCG) regions. The curriculum was 
intentionally designed with standardised 
content and incorporated interactive 
quizzes. This approach aims to 
optimise learning effectiveness and 
foster greater engagement among 
participants. The significant reach 
and interactive design underscore 
D-Gurukul’s commitment to 
developing a knowledgeable 
and effective channel partner 
network. This investment in 
learning directly contributes to 
enhanced partner performance and 
stronger business outcomes. The 
programme’s collaborative nature 
ensures alignment with diverse 
business objectives.
People process excellence and data-based decision-making
P4
Enabling Growth through Process Discipline and Insight-Led Decisions
We strive to improve and optimise people processes, ensuring robustness of systems in an ever-evolving business landscape. 
Our approach is built on operational discipline, digital enablement, and data-driven decision-making, with the aim of delivering 
consistent and engaging employee experience. We are implementing new processes and restructuring existing ones, consciously 
aligning individual aspirations with the organisational goals.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
53
Performance Conversations: Unlocking Growth through Feedback
In our ongoing efforts to cultivate a 
merit-based and growth-oriented 
culture, we have implemented a 
structured framework encompassing 
mid-term feedback and continuous 
coaching conversations. Recognising 
that Havells operates as a highly 
matrixed organisation where 
collaborative teamwork is essential 
for achieving collective success, 
our approach emphasises both 
continuous feedback and coaching. 
Furthermore, managers have integrated 
the assessment of team adherence 
to organisational values alongside 
performance evaluations. In the  
FY 2024-25, a significant investment 
was made in developing our people 
managers, with over 1,000 
individuals receiving training and 
development tools designed to 
evaluate managerial effectiveness, 
unlock the potential within their 
teams, and foster individual 
capability-building.
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews
Details of the Reporting Managers having performance conversations with their respective employees in FY 2024-25 are mentioned 
in the above table.
The HR function is collaborating 
closely with the IT function to drive 
the adoption of digital transformation. 
Various measures are being taken to 
empower, engage, and encourage 
employees. Initiatives such as 
Automation Tech Day and AI-powered 
Discovery are designed to spark  
digital curiosity.
HR continues to play a pivotal role in 
helping teams embrace change, adopt 
new technologies, and upskill for the 
future. Through collaboration, we are 
shaping a digital-first organisation.
Data-Driven Decisions: From 
Insight to Impact        
HR at Havells leverages data-driven 
models to facilitate objective and 
balanced decisions aligned with business 
imperatives. The Annual Operating 
Plan (AOP) utilises real-time data on 
manpower costing, scenario-based skill 
planning, and other key people insights 
to inform strategic decisions.
Position master data and strategic 
workforce planning further support 
managerial and leadership decision-
making by enabling swift responses 
to emerging skill gaps, recruitment 
priorities, and succession planning 
needs. By optimising cost efficiencies 
while maintaining operational flexibility, 
we continue to build a workforce that 
is agile, equitable, and aligned with 
organisational goals.
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Male
Female
Male
Female
Senior Management
91.21%
85.71%
93.41%
100.00%
Middle Management
88.64%
90.63%
93.28%
91.92%
Junior Management
88.10%
90.10%
97.03%
96.30%
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Havells India Limited
54
Employee Experience
P5
Employee experience goes beyond compensation, it’s about growth, flexibility, well-being, and a culture of trust and inclusion. 
Our commitment to fostering engagement and driving purpose is reflected in our recognition as one of India’s Best Workplaces 
by Great Place to Work® for the sixth consecutive year.
Onboarding with Purpose: QRG Connect
QRG connect, a structured pre-boarding 
and induction programme, was launched 
during the year for seamless, engaging, and 
personalised onboarding of new joiners. 
The programme helps new employees to 
commence their journey with Havells early, 
enabling them to familiarise themselves with 
Havells, its foundation, values, leadership, 
culture, and feel welcomed and included.
The programme provides employees with 
early access to essential resources, followed 
by regional and functional orientation, 
business overviews, and values workshops. 
Cultural integration is facilitated with the 
help of a dedicated Buddy, QRG Connect 
Handbook, a curated joining kit, and In-house 
news magazine “Yours, Havells”. The entire 
experience is digitally-enabled, ensuring 
accessibility across hybrid work environments.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
55
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Additionally, we ranked among the ‘Top 50 of India’s Best Workplaces™ in 
Manufacturing – Large Category’, excelling in New Joiner Experience, Fun at 
Work, Unique Benefits, and Special Celebrations. These milestones reaffirm our 
belief that a great workplace is built on authentic experiences, not just policies.
Building Bridges through Internal Communication
GPTW certification
Strengthening internal communication has been a key lever in the Human Capital strategy. At Havells, we have focussed 
on fostering a sense of belonging and unity across the workforce through multiple communication campaigns on various 
engagement dimensions. We synchronised our efforts using inputs from our employees through consistent focussed group 
discussions (FGDs), listening, understanding, and engaging, leading to communication campaigns energising teams. 
Additionally, the two-way engagement helped us shape several initiatives around new policies, processes, and employee 
benefits. Our flagship quarterly newsletter ‘Yours, Havells’, has played a pivotal role in bringing synergy and enthusiasm 
across the organisation spanning Business Units, Plants, Branches, and the Centre for Research & Innovation (CRI). It serves 
as a strong medium to share updates, celebration of victories, milestones, and people. Through internal communication as a 
lever, we are striving to build a transparent, informed, and connected organisation where every voice matters.
Caring for Our People: A Holistic Approach to Well-being
Employee well-being is a core pillar of our people strategy. We are committed to fostering a supportive, healthy, and  
secure environment where individuals can thrive, both personally and professionally. In line with our commitment to fostering 
a supportive and inclusive work environment, we prioritise the well-being of our employees across all operations in India. Our 
comprehensive benefits package, encompassing maternity leave, life insurance, accident insurance, and healthcare coverage, 
reflects this dedication. Additionally, we offer retirement provisions to ensure the long-term financial security of our employees. 
These benefits extend to all the employees, demonstrating our firm belief in equality and care for every member of the Havells 
family. While paternity leave, wedding gift and stock ownership options are exclusively available to full-time employees, our 
overarching goal is to cultivate a workplace where everyone feels valued and supported, both personally and professionally.
Our Wellness Wednesday initiative continues to encourage employees to prioritise mental and physical well-being, promoting 
a proactive health culture. In 2023, we launched the Care Leave Pool Programme (CLPP), a unique shared leave initiative that 
provides crucial shared support during personal or family emergencies for employees who have exhausted their own leave 
balance. Enrolling over 5,500 employees, CLPP is a testament to our people-first culture, reinforcing a spirit of collective strength 
and solidarity. Till now, 42 employees have benefited from this initiative, receiving vital support when they needed it most.
Safety First: Empowering a Culture of Protection
At Havells, safety is paramount, driving our comprehensive Occupational Health and Safety framework beyond mere 
compliance. We empower employees as proactive safety advocates through enhanced HIRA and Fire Risk Assessments, 
expanding ‘Train-the-Trainer’ programmes and integrating safety modules into e-Gurukul for widespread risk awareness.  
The ‘Safety Mint App’ enhances incident tracking and response across manufacturing plants, while regular mock drills and 
behaviour-based safety training are integral to our people processes, fostering a safety-first culture built on continuous 
improvement and shared responsibility. By leveraging insights from incident learnings and prioritising continuous improvement, 
we are building a secure, resilient, and safety-conscious workplace where protection is not just a policy but a shared responsibility. 
* Return to work rate is the ratio of the total number of employees that returned to work after 
parental leave ended by the total number of employees due to return to work after parental  
leave ended.
** Retention rate is the ratio of employees retained 12 months after returning to work following 
parental leave by the total number of employees returning from parental leave in the previous 
reporting period.
Employee Parental Leave - Entitlement, Return to Work, and Retention Rate
Parameters
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Employees 
entitled 
for 
parental leaves
6,662
455
7,117
6,347
365
6,712
Total employees who took 
parental leave
252
19
275
257
16
273
Total number of employees 
who returned to work in the 
reporting period after parental 
leave ended
250
15
269
257
10
267
Total number of employees 
who returned to work after 
parental leave ended and are 
still employed 12 months after 
their return to work
 202 
 9 
 211 
 156 
 11 
 167 
Return to work rate*
100.00%100.00%100.00%100.00% 90.91% 99.63%
Retention rate**
78.60% 90.00% 79.03% 74.64% 68.75% 74.22%
Havells India Limited
56
Safety Performance
Distributed Leadership, Diversity & Inclusion
P6
We are building an organisation where leadership is not akin to titles – it is defined by initiative, ownership, and impact. The 
Human Capital strategy aims to nurture leadership at every level, empowering individuals to think independently, act decisively, 
and lead with confidence.
At Havells, every stakeholder is empowered to “think out of the box” through a culture of open expression at all levels, supported 
by a flat structure that minimises hierarchy and promotes the free exchange of ideas without boundaries or ego, as we believe 
structural fluidity fosters unconventional innovation.
We continue to strengthen inclusive practices by expanding internal platforms such as Bechain Sapne, Samvaad, Dil Se and, 
Morning Panchayat sessions, which facilitate opportunities for meaningful conversations with employees and channel partners. 
These initiatives nurture a culture of trust, collaboration and inclusivity embedding the notion that innovation is co-created.  
* The main type of work-related injuries involved fractures, cut injuries, and other wounds.
** Increase in the total number of hours worked is on account of increase in the workforce and inclusion of on-roll employees of branches and 
warehouse in the calculations
^ For FY 2024-25, the total number of hours worked by workers have been calculated on an actual basis. Hence the numbers for current year are 
not comparable to that extent as compared to FY 2023-24.
Note: The rates have been calculated basis of 10,00,000 hours worked.
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total recordable work-related injuries*
Employee
-
2
Worker
5
7
Rate of total recordable work-related injuries
Employee
-
0.08
Worker
0.14
0.18
No. of fatalities as a result of work-related 
Employee
-
-
Worker
-
1
Rate of fatalities as a result of work-related 
Employee
-
-
Worker
-
0.03
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities)
Employee
-
-
Worker
-
-
Rate of high consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding 
fatalities)
Employee
-
-
Worker
-
-
Total number of hours worked
Employee
3,96,20,655**
2,64,91,005
Worker
3,51,97,320^
3,93,25,112
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
57
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Championing Inclusion, 
Celebrating Differences
Firm believers in the power of diverse 
teams in driving richer ideas, stronger 
decisions, and better business 
outcomes, we champion diversity, 
equity, and inclusion (DEI) within our 
culture and performance. Going beyond 
mere representation, we are striving 
to create an environment where every 
individual feels valued, heard, and 
empowered.
We launched a DEI Cross-Functional 
Team (CFT) to advance our diversity 
agenda. Surveys, awareness 
campaigns, and interactive dialogues 
were organised and insights from these 
initiatives helped to mitigate biases, 
refine policies, and promote inclusive 
leadership to strengthen accountability 
and inclusion across the organisation.
As we move forward, we remain 
committed to amplifying diverse 
perspectives and empowering emerging 
voices, ensuring every employee thrives 
in Havells culture of shared leadership 
and belonging.
Diversity of Governance Bodies and Employees
Category
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Age Group (in years)
Gender
Age Group (in years)
Gender
<30
30-50
>50
Male Female
<30
30-50
>50
Male Female
Senior Management
%
0.36% 52.86%
46.79%
97.50%
2.50%
- 52.47%
47.53%
98.10%
1.90%
Middle Management
%
6.65% 85.38%
7.97%
95.31%
4.69%
4.02% 88.42%
7.56%
96.02%
3.98%
Junior Management
%
51.85% 45.10%
3.05%
86.06% 13.94%
42.43% 54.99%
2.58%
89.00% 11.00%
Board of  Directors -
%
-
- 100.00%
92.86%
7.14%
-
- 100.00%
92.86%
7.14%
(ED + Independent 
Directors + Non 
Independent 
Directors)
Key Management 
Personnel (KMP)
%
-
- 100.00% 100.00%
-
          -           - 100.00%
100.00%
          - 
Note: Details of the Representation of Women (in percentage) are presented in the table above.
Havells India Limited
58
Note: Details of the representation of Women inclusive of Employees and Workers are presented in the graph above.
Details of Remuneration of Women w.r.t. Men bifurcated on the lines of Employee category in Havells for FY 2024-25 has been 
mentioned in the graph.
Gender diversity in the overall workforce
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 
GLOSSARY
Employees/Full-time 
Employees
Permanent employees including Senior, Middle, and Junior management. This excludes Directors, 
KMP, Trainees apprentices, on-roll workers and other than permanent employees and workers.
Senior Management
Management-level from General Manager to Executive President
Middle Management
Management-level from Assistant Manager to Joint General Manager
Junior Management
Management-level from Receptionist to Senior Executive
Temporary Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
Workers
Permanent Workers and Contractual Workers
Workforce
Workforce includes the Permanent employees, Other than permanent employees, Permanent workers, 
and Other than permanent workers at all significant locations of operations of Havells India Limited. 
This excludes Directors, KMP, and Trainees/apprentices. 
Basic Salary
Fixed, minimum amount paid to an employee for performing his or her duties. It excludes any 
additional remuneration, such as payments for overtime work or bonuses.
Remuneration
Basic salary plus additional amounts/incentives paid to employees (Employees+Contractual Workers)
Significant location of 
operations
HO, CRI, Plants, Branch offices, and Warehouses
0.93
0.94
0.96
0.92	
1.07
1.05
1.19
0.77
Senior Management 
(Base salary)
Senior Management 
(Remuneration)
Middle Management 
(Base salary)
Middle Management 
(Remuneration)
Junior Management 
(Base salary)
Junior Management 
(Remuneration)
Trainees/Apprentices, etc.
(Remuneration)
Permanent Workers
(Remuneration)
14.64%
13.03%
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
59
Intellectual Capital
ROOTED IN TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION. 
GEARED FOR EMERGING OPPORTUNITIES.
Havells commitment to research and innovation is deeply 
entrenched in consumer insights and evolving market trends. 
Sustained investments in cutting-edge technologies, new 
product development, marketing, and brand building continue 
to strengthen our intellectual capital, ensuring responsiveness 
to the emerging consumer demand, and helping us stay agile 
and remain at the forefront. 
SDGs Impacted
Amount spent on  
R&D activities in FY 2024-25
`258 crores
Havells’ R&D strategy is anchored in consumer-centric innovation, 
technology ownership, and end-to-end product responsibility. With 
sustained investments, we continue to strengthen our in-house capabilities, 
enhance infrastructure, and drive IP creation with 77 patents applications 
and 211 design registrations filed during the year. Our focus remains on 
developing differentiated, smart and sustainable solutions that address real 
consumer needs. These efforts have been recognised through multiple 
prestigious design and innovation awards, reinforcing our position as a 
future – focussed, innovation-led organisation.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Consumer-Centricity
End-to-end Product 
Responsibility
Technology Ownership
Three 
Pillars of 
R&D Vision
Havells India Limited
60
Recognitions
National Accreditation Board of Testing & 
Calibration Laboratories (NABL) accreditation 
to Havells Lighting Lab Neemrana
IF Design 
Award 2024
CII Design Excellence 
Award 2024
Red Dot design  
Award 2024
German product design 
Award 2024
Some of the recent innovations:
Q-TRON MCCB 
A next-gen modular circuit breaker 
designed to deliver superior safety, 
reliability and energy efficiency.
Lloyd Stunnair Air Conditioner
India’s 1st designer AC powered by  
AI featuring unique aesthetics with 
sliding fascia.
Vita Dlight range
A unique lighting innovation that 
combines ambient lighting with UVB 
exposure for natural vitamin D synthesis.
IE (International Efficiency)  
4 motors
High-efficiency industrial motors 
introduced to reduce energy 
consumption in continuous-use 
applications.
EnTrack smart energy 
management device
A smart energy management device 
using NILM technology to monitor and 
analyse home energy usage in real time.
Lloyd Novante fully automatic 
top load washing machine
Our first in-house, fully automatic, top-
load model with 5D Ultra Wash and 
advanced smart features.
Convertible air cooler
A space-saving 2-in-1 solution that 
functions as both an air cooler and a 
side table.
EPIC BLDC fans range
Sleek, minimalistic fans with modern 
controls, direction-sensing remotes and 
multiple smart features.
Recognition at CII 
Industrial IP Award 2024
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
61
Integrated Report
Intellectual Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CASE STUDY 1
Driving innovation to create differentiation and deliver superior consumer value
Backed by a strong R&D and manufacturing capabilities, Havells remains focussed on developing new and unique products 
rooted in deep consumer insights. We believe that delivering superior value and creating meaningful differentiation are essential 
levers for building long-term brand relevance and business success.
Next-gen circuit breakers for modern industrial needs
What Are  
Circuit Breakers?
Circuit breakers are 
critical safety devices that 
automatically stop the 
electrical flow in a circuit 
when they detect a fault – 
protecting equipment, 
people, and operations.
Introducing the 
TRON Range
Built for today’s evolving 
industrial demands, the 
TRON range of circuit 
breakers is engineered 
for performance, safety 
and flexibility. It offers 
tailored solutions across 
various segments – from 
residential to heavy 
industrial – addressing 
both basic and advanced 
needs.
Meet QTRON 
– Power Meets 
Precision
QTRON is our premium 
offering in the TRON 
range, crafted especially 
for mid-tier industrial 
OEMs who demand 
more from their electrical 
systems. Combining 
compact design with 
high-end performance, 
QTRON is the smart 
choice for modern, 
efficiency-driven setups.
62
Havells India Limited
Smart & 
Communicable  
Ready for Industry 4.0 with 
intelligent accessories and 
communication support.
New Generation 
Accessories   
Built for the future with 
simplified installation and 
integration.
Tailored for Premium Mid-Tier OEMs    
A perfect match for growing businesses needing 
industrial-grade performance.
Compact Footprint 
Saves panel space without 
compromising on power.
High Power Density  
Delivers more performance 
per unit volume.
High Efficiency   
Optimised for lower energy 
losses and better reliability.
Design Modularity    
Flexible configuration 
options to match diverse 
industrial needs.
QTRON is not just a circuit breaker 
– it’s a smarter, more adaptable, and future-ready power protection solution.
Why QTRON ?
Unmatched Safety  
and Reliability
QTRON circuit breakers are compact 
yet powerful. With a breaking capacity 
of 100% at 36kA, 50kA, and 70kA. 
They ensure maximum safety and 
minimal downtime, protecting your 
operations against overloads and short 
circuits.
01
Advanced Current Limiting 
Technology
Innovative design reduces let-through 
energy. Our patented rapid arc-
quenching mechanism enhances safety 
by quickly extinguishing electrical arcs, 
outperforming traditional single-break 
systems to keep your equipment safe 
and extend its lifespan.
02
Built for Harsh Environments
Engineered for resilience, QTRON 
breakers feature Class II insulation and 
rugged construction that withstand 
extreme temperature (up to 50OC) and 
high humidity (up to 50% RH). They 
are designed to perform reliably even in 
pollution degree III environments.
03
Durable Performance 
Long-lasting reliability. With the capability 
to handle up to 25,000 mechanical 
operation and 10,000 electrical 
operations, QTRON breakers are built 
for endurance, reducing the need for 
frequent replacements and maintenance.
04
Enhanced Connectivity
Stay connected with modern 
technology. QTRON breakers feature 
digital displays and cloud compatibility, 
allowing for real-time monitoring 
and control, making them ideal for 
contemporary infrastructure.
05
Versatile and User-Friendly 
Design
Flexibility installation options. QTRON’s 
rotatable display and line-load reversibility 
ensure easy setup in any orientation, 
enhancing usability and convenience for 
installers and operators alike.
06
Tailor-Made For Your Needs 
16A to 630A, QTRON MCCBs are 
available in multiple sizes, tailored 
for industrial panels and distribution 
equipment worldwide.
07
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
63
Integrated Report
Intellectual Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Reimagining Comfort Through Innovation
For decades, air conditioning technology remained largely unchanged – until now. We 
challenged the norm with a simple yet powerful question:
What if an air conditioner could do more than just cool? What if it could adapt, personalise, 
and enhance your space?
This vision led to the birth of Sliding Fascia and Mood Lighting Air Conditioner, an innovation 
that goes beyond traditional cooling. It merges cutting-edge technology with intuitive design, 
offering a seamless blend of efficiency, aesthetics, and intelligent functionality.
STUNNAIR - A Revolution in Cooling –  
India’s 1st designer AC powered by AI
CASE STUDY 2
The journey to creating this 
revolutionary air conditioner started 
with extensive research, countless 
prototypes and a commitment to 
reimagining indoor comfort. Drawing 
inspiration from luxury interiors, smart 
home automation and nature’s airflow 
efficiency, the team developed a 
dynamic motorised panel that optimises 
cooling performance while enhancing 
energy efficiency.
Unlike conventional air conditioners, 
this moving panel adjusts dynamically 
to the environment, ensuring even 
cooling while preventing unnecessary 
energy consumption. The design is 
not just about aesthetics – it actively 
contributes to better airflow and 
temperature regulation.
	 Developed entirely in-house for 
seamless integration
	 Engineered for durability, refined 
through CAE and CFD simulations
	 Optimised for energy efficiency, 
reducing unnecessary cooling 
waste
Inspired by Elegance, Engineered for Performance
Havells India Limited
64
Ambi-Lighting: Merging Comfort with Aesthetics
The STUNNAIR & STELLAR series of air conditioners extend beyond temperature control, incorporating customisable 
LED lighting for a holistic comfort experience. Through the Havells One App, users can personalise the lighting settings to 
match their mood and ambience.
	 Subtle hues for relaxation and unwinding
	 Bright lighting for focus and productivity
	 Temperature-Based Ambi-Lighting provides a visual 
indication of cooling intensity
The LED strip dynamically changes colour based on cooling 
mode, enhancing both usability and aesthetic appeal.
Dual-Louvre Technology: Intelligent Airflow Control
Traditional air conditioners distribute air in a fixed direction, often leading to uneven cooling. The patented Dual-Louvre 
Technology overcomes this limitation with independent horizontal and vertical Louvres, controlled by dual motors for 
precision airflow management.
	 Targeted cooling directs airflow exactly where it is needed
	 Find Me & Miss Me Mode allows personalised cooling based 
on user presence
	 Adaptive airflow ensures uniform cooling across the room
This smart airflow system optimises both user comfort and energy 
efficiency, making cooling more responsive and effective.
The Future of Cooling, Today
The Lloyd Stunnair AC marks a significant leap forward in merging innovative engineering with intelligent design. By continuously 
pushing boundaries, Havells-Lloyd is transforming air conditioning into an experience that is adaptive, efficient and tailored to 
modern living needs. This breakthrough is more than just cooling – it’s the future of comfort.
Offline Voice & Smart Control – Hands-Free Convenience
Unlike traditional smart appliances that 
rely on internet connectivity, Havells’ 
Offline Voice & Smart Control enables 
voice commands without WiFi. This 
feature ensures seamless functionality 
even in remote locations where internet 
access may be unreliable.
	 Instant response with zero lag
	 Enhanced privacy with no cloud 
storage requirements
	 Reliable control in any setting
With this advanced smart control 
system, users can adjust settings 
effortlessly, making air conditioning 
more intuitive and user-friendly.
I.N.D.R.I.: Intelligent Cooling for the Modern Home
Cooling is no longer just about 
temperature regulation – it’s about 
adaptability and intelligence. With 
I.N.D.R.I., Havells introduces a smart 
technology that enhances cooling 
based on real-time conditions.
	 Movement detection adjusts 
airflow to active zones
	 Adaptive learning modifies settings 
to match different environments
	 Energy optimisation ensures 
maximum comfort with minimal 
energy consumption
Patented by Havells, this advanced 
technology redefines air conditioning by 
integrating intelligence into every day 
cooling.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
65
Integrated Report
Intellectual Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
BRAND
Continued 
investment 
in brand 
strengthening
Over the last few decades, 
Havells has consistently taken 
strategic steps to shift its product 
categories from commoditised to 
branded offerings. This has helped 
establish a strong mass-premium 
positioning backed by iconic 
campaigns, quality product delivery 
and strong channel connect. 
These efforts have also contributed 
to continued improvement in brand 
consideration and preference 
scores across our portfolio.
We have been sharpening our brand architecture with a strategic 
approach customised to the evolving needs of diverse consumer 
segments. Each brand under the Havells umbrella is now anchored to 
a distinct consumer proposition, supported by differentiated messaging 
and a tailored media mix. Clear and distinct positioning has helped drive 
deeper brand salience and relevance across audiences. With consistent 
brand building across categories and markets, Havells continues to 
reinforce its position as a trusted name across generations.
During the year, Havells onboarded celebrity couple, Nayanthara 
and Vignesh, as brand ambassadors for the South Indian market. 
To strengthen the Lloyd brand in Tamil Nadu, we partnered with star 
Vijay Sethupathi. For Havells Studio, a stylish new campaign featuring 
Janhvi Kapoor was introduced to communicate the differentiated 
features of our Meditate air purifiers. We also unveiled a theme-based 
decorative lighting collection in Home Art Lights through a digital-first 
collaboration with Dia Mirza, reinforcing our premium aesthetic and 
design-first identity. Further, we collaborated with a range of influencers 
to effectively leverage digital platforms for advertising and engagement. 
This balanced approach enabled us to connect with diverse customer 
segments across age groups, income levels and geographies.
Advertisement & 
Sales Promotion 
spend in FY 2024-25
` 622 crores
Havells India Limited
66
Revenue share directed 
towards Advertisement 
and Sales Promotion in 
FY 2024-25
2.9%
Brand Ambassadors
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
67
Integrated Report
Intellectual Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Digital 
Collaborations
Dia Mirza
Priyamani
Gogi Tech
Koel Mallik
Mamitha Baiju
Karisma Kapoor
Rajiv Makhni
Kritika Khurana
Praduman Kaushik
Aparshakti Khurrana
Apoorva Arora
Prabhat Chaudhary
Priyadarshini
Havells India Limited
68
Key Advertising Campaigns
Havells x Nayanthara & Vignesh
Meditate Air Purifier by Havells Studio - Feel Beyond
Mother’s Day - Maa ko karein #HarPalMeinShaamil
Standard BLDC Fans - Performance Ka Higher Standard
Havells BLDC+ Fans - Look Up To Havells
Havells Fans - Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah
Havells Home Art Lights - A Story In Every Light
Havells Super Grooming Kit - Take Charge Of Your Look
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
69
Integrated Report
Intellectual Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Mahesh Babu & Tamannaah
Vijay Sethupathi
Mohanlal
Sourav Ganguly
Lloyd Refrigerator  
- Freezing ka New Record
Ranveer Singh & Deepika Padukone
Havells India Limited
70
Mahesh Babu & Tamannaah
Vijay Sethupathi
Mohanlal
Sourav Ganguly
Lloyd Stunnair  
- India’s 1st designer AC 
powered by AI
Ranveer Singh & Deepika Padukone
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
71
Integrated Report
Intellectual Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Havells Heater Innovation 
@ the Maha Kumbh 2025
The year of Maha Kumbh, a mega spiritual gathering (650 Million 
estimated in 2025), offered a unique opportunity for Havells to connect 
with millions of devotees through its innovative media strategy. 
A 10’ x 10’ Live Heater Unit was installed in the main Sangam area to 
provide the congregating pilgrims relief from biting cold after a Holi Dip 
in Sangam. The innovation was a massive hit with pilgrims thronging in 
hordes for warmth & brand Havells resonated through this strategy,  
with one & all!
The Havells Story – Illuminating the future x Discovery Channel
As a recognition of Havells’ strength 
in R&D, manufacturing excellence 
and sustainability initiatives, the 
Company was featured in a special 
episode by Discovery Channel as 
part of its series on ‘India’s success 
stories in Innovation, Make in India 
and ESG’. The episode highlighted 
Havells’ advanced capabilities 
in automation, MES integration, 
precision engineering, and large-
scale production – capturing the 
journey from research and design 
to world-class manufacturing. It 
included coverage of key facilities 
such as the Head Office, Design 
Studio, R&D Centre, and four major 
plants. This recognition reinforces 
Havells’ positioning as a future-
ready brand committed to building 
responsibly and driving progress 
through innovation.
Havells India Limited
72
Utilising industry platforms for brand building & customer engagement
After a six-year hiatus, Havells made a comeback at ELECRAMA 2025, a flagship showcase of the Indian Electrical Industry 
ecosystem and the largest standalone show in the electrical and allied equipment industry. It provided Havells with an ideal 
platform to connect with B2B customers and industry leaders.
The show presented an excellent opportunity for Havells to demonstrate its cutting-edge solutions for various sectors, including 
infrastructure, commercial and residential buildings and industrial applications. During the exhibition, the Company launched 
an impressive array of 17 new products across categories such as industrial switchgear, domestic switchgear, solar, motors, 
switches, professional lighting and cables.
Havells also participated in the Acetech exhibition, where innovation and excellence in architecture, building materials and 
technology took centre stage. Havells booth, inaugurated by the esteemed Mr. Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, Cabinet Minister 
for Roads & Buildings and Cinematography in Telangana, showcased cutting-edge solutions and products. The booth drew an 
incredible response from industry experts, partners and visitors alike. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
73
Integrated Report
Intellectual Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Social and Relationship Capital
ROOTED IN TRUST-BASED RELATIONSHIPS.  
GEARED FOR DELIVERING ENDURING VALUE. 
At Havells, our CSR initiatives and sustainable business 
practices are dedicated to cultivating a resilient and 
inclusive ecosystem that ensures equal opportunities for all. 
As a responsible organisation, we prioritise environmental 
stewardship, fostering a healthier planet for future 
generations. Our commitment to sustainability is focussed 
on ensuring holistic well-being and long-term value 
creation for our stakeholders, the communities we serve 
and the environment.
SDGs Impacted
Havells’ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) interventions 
are developed to support thematic areas as per United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). With 
community development and environmental conservation 
as our primary goal, the initiatives are deeply rooted in our 
business values and models and are driving transformative 
change in the communities we serve and operate in, 
particularly those closely tied to our business segments and 
manufacturing operations.
Our CSR initiatives are focussed on various areas including 
establishing sustainable partnerships, investing in institutional 
SOCIAL & SUSTAINABLE INCLUSIVE GROWTH
Social & sustainable inclusive growth
building, extending nutritional benefits among underserved 
children, fostering ecological balance, enabling the 
development of sustainable environment, creating livelihood 
opportunities for the marginalised communities, and fostering 
diversity & inclusion.
We have implemented a comprehensive CSR framework 
aligned with OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation 
and Development) guidelines, focussing on six key pillars, 
viz. Health & Nutrition, Sanitation, Promoting Education, 
Environment Conservation, Skill Development and Livelihood 
Opportunities.
Appointment of third 
party input for impact 
assessment
Milestone-based 
monitoring of projects
KPI-driven dashboards 
for regular performance 
monitoring and review
Adherence to terms and 
conditions of MoUs /
agreements
CSR 
Monitoring
Havells India Limited
74
Mid-day meal (Havells Flagship Programme)   
Through this CSR flagship programme, QRG Foundation was honoured with Bhamashah Award 2024 for the 7th Consecutive 
year. The award is a testament to our exceptional CSR contributions in the area of education and  
healthcare for students in Rajasthan. 
In November 2024, we achieved an incredible milestone of serving over 100 million mid-day meals with outreach 
to 8 lakh+ students since inception. A significant feat in Havells journey of supporting children in the area of health 
and education, it is expected to have a profound impact on young minds, aligning with our commitment  
to building better communities. 
The Mid-day meal scheme is a vital programme that aims to improve the nutritional status of children and 
encourage them to attend school regularly. To ensure that the vegetables used for Mid-day meals are pure and 
hygienic, we have also established a vegetable washing plant which removes pesticides and insecticides 
from vegetables. In addition to providing Mid-day meals, we also distributed 30 sets of tables/benches in 
Government Sr. Secondary School, Pratap Singhpura, Neemrana (Rajasthan). 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
75
Integrated Report
Social and Relationship Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
‘Project Baala’ promoting Hygiene & Sanitation
Havells secured the 1st Runner-Up award for ‘Best Maximum Impact’ in the Corporate & PSU Category by ASSOCHAM on 
menstrual hygiene day (28th May) for Project Baala, its transformative CSR initiative. 
In FY 2024-25, 2,30,000+ sanitary kits were distributed, 300+ women trained & 1,000+ Menstrual Hygiene workshops were 
also conducted across 25+ states, 6 UTs, over 60 districts including 6 aspirational districts. 
Havells India Limited
76
CASE STUDY 1
In the urban slums of Kokari, Wadala, an area in Mumbai, 
Project Baala conducted workshops and distributed 
sustainable kits aimed at educating women in the community 
about menstrual health, the importance of reusable and 
sustainable pads, the impact of plastic waste on the 
environment, and proper menstrual hygiene. During the 
endline assessment, one story stood out to us, highlighting 
the true impact of our efforts.
Rajani (name changed), a domestic worker in the community, 
is a mother of two daughters. For years, Rajani found it 
difficult to go to work during her periods. Managing menstrual 
hygiene was a challenge, and to make matters worse, the 
family she worked for restricted her access to the kitchen and 
refused to serve her tea during her menstrual cycle, adding 
further to her physical and emotional discomfort.
Rajani, along with her daughter, attended our workshops, 
where they learned about the menstrual cycle, how to care 
for themselves during periods, and the benefits of using Baala 
pads. After receiving the information and starting to use the 
pads, Rajani immediately felt relieved. The pads were soft, 
Rajani’s Journey
comfortable, and easy to manage during her work hours. 
Though the restrictions at her workplace remained, the ease 
of managing her menstrual health restored her confidence in 
going to work.
Rajani’s daughter, who often shuffles between their village 
and the city, used to find it easier to manage her periods in 
the village earlier. There, she did not have to worry about 
disposing of menstrual waste in public spaces, as the village 
had designated an area for burning waste. Now, with the 
Baala pads, she could take care of her menstrual hygiene 
privately, without any discomfort or embarrassment.
Rajani’s story is a testament to the positive change that 
access to information and the right products can bring to 
women’s lives. It shows how small adjustments like using 
comfortable, discreet pads can have a significant impact on a 
woman’s ability to maintain her dignity, health, and livelihood.
Our Implementation Associate – Harshada delivering workshop at Kokari, Mumbai.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
77
Integrated Report
Social and Relationship Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Environment Conservation - Teak Tree Plantation in Bhopal
Teak tree plantation programme, our flagship project, serves as a significant model aligned with the Sustainable 
Development Goals. Beyond enhancing green cover and delivering substantial ecological benefits, it contributes 
immensely to the well-being of our communities by providing them with a sustainable opportunity for employment and 
livelihood.  25,40,000 teak trees have been planted so far under this initiative in various districts of Bhopal (Madhya 
Pradesh) such as Vidisha, Sagar and Sehore, in association with Madhya Pradesh Rajya Van Vikas Nigam. Of this, 
4,07,500 teak trees in Sagar District, Madhya Pradesh were planted during the year. 
The trees planted by Havells from FY 2019-20 across 480 hectares of land underwent an assessment for survival and 
carbon dioxide sequestration potential by the Indian Institute of Forest Management (IIFM). The survival rate of plantation 
was found to be more than 90% across all compartments, reflective of our good care and management. We are pleased 
to report that 1,092 tonnes of CO2 have been successfully sequestered through the existing plantation so far and the total 
CO2 sequestration potential of these plantations after the final harvest (60 years) would be 4,30,700 tonnes.
Foundation Learning & Numeracy (FLN) Programme in Agra (U.P.) 
The FLN initiative was implemented to promote quality education and learning among children aged 3 to 6 studying in  
1st to 3rd grade. The programme is being conducted in association with the Central Square Foundation under Nipun Bharat 
Mission and has benefited over 1 lakh students across 3,000+ schools in 2 districts since its launch in 2023. The improvement 
highlights the effectiveness of the National FLN Mission, validating the remarkable efforts put forth by Havells, the Indian 
education system and other stakeholders. 
Progress of Old Plantation Site
New Plantation Site - FY 2024-25
Agra Students Learning Outcomes
Beneficiary Reach in Agra
KPI
Start of Year
End of Year
60% teachers using the teacher guides
18%
22%
60% ARPs adhering to all school visit protocols
18.75%
75%
80% District and Block meetings adhering to all 
protocols
27.27%
66%
Students
Teachers
Schools
Blocks
ARPs
1,25,634
8,224
2,077
16
76
Havells India Limited
78
Skill Development & Sustainable Community
With an aim to empower the underprivileged youth and disadvantaged electricians through vocational training and 
livelihood opportunities, we implemented the ‘Maharath’ Programme in January 2024. The programme is being managed 
in collaboration with the Electronic Sector Skill Council of India (ESSCI) to explore various facets of the industry and equip 
young electricians from marginalised communities with future-ready skills. 3,000+ electricians across the nation have been 
certified under the programme as on 31st March, 2025.
Additionally, developed the stitching & computer centre in association with Madhav Jan Sewa Niwas at Samalkha, 
Panipat. Its impacted to over 250 women beneficiaries & 200+ youth in FY 2024-25.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
79
Integrated Report
Social and Relationship Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Build a Havells School of Management & Leadership in association with Ashoka University  
Havells associated with Ashoka University to build State-of-the-Art School of Management in FY 2024-25. This move 
carries forward the legacy of our founder Chairman, late Qimat Rai Gupta Ji, who first made a grant to the Ashoka 
University in 2014.  
 
The School aims to develop programmes that match the excellence of business and management programmes offered 
by leading global institutions such as the Saïd Business School of Oxford University, Wharton School of the University of 
Pennsylvania, Sloan School of Management of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Marshall School of Business of 
the University of Southern California, and Stern School of Business of New York University.
Media coverage: 
HSOM Launch 
in collaboration 
with Ashoka 
University, Dated: 
07.02.2025
Havells India Limited
80
Brand Store Footprint Expansion
Brand Stores are a driver of both business and brand image 
for Havells across markets (urban, semi-urban and rural), 
providing best-in-class experience to consumers in the FMEG 
space. Brand store expansion continued to gain momentum 
with 200 new brand stores added in urban/semi-urban 
markets and another 300 UTSAV stores added in  
rural markets of sub 10K population towns. On an average, 
the size of new urban/semi-urban stores is comparatively 
bigger, enabling a wider display range and enhanced 
customer experience. 
Havells SellSmart: E-POS
Havells has been a leader in organised retail within the electrical industry. The introduction of the EPOS (Electronic Point of Sale) 
system within the brand store network served as another significant milestone in our journey, further enhancing our market 
positioning. The EPOS system enables Havells to develop a deeper understanding of consumer behaviour and preferences, 
which can be leveraged to design targeted campaigns, personalised offers, and an integrated consumer loyalty programme. 
This technology-driven initiative marks a paradigm shift from a sell-in to a sell-out approach, empowering stores to focus on 
consumer demand and satisfaction. Additionally, EPOS enhances inventory management, optimises operational efficiency, and 
provides real-time data analytics, ensuring a seamless and enriched retail experience for both consumers and store owners.
Havells Fan SmartHub
Havells Fan SmartHub is an exclusive, first-of-its-kind 
mono-brand store format dedicated to the Company’s fan 
category. The SmartHub offers customers the widest range of 
premium and decorative fans, carefully curated to showcase 
aesthetics, cutting-edge technology, and innovative designs. 
Beyond functional features, it provides an experiential retail 
environment that caters to tech-savvy and design-conscious 
customers seeking style and advanced performance. This 
pioneering initiative elevates the fan retailing experience, 
making the hub a destination of choice for discerning buyers.
Key Initiatives for Go-To-Market (GTM) Excellence in FY 2024-25
Maintaining enduring relationships
Exclusive Brand stores
Galaxy/Gallery
Fan Smart Hub
World of Experience
Lloyd Gallery
Home Art Light
Utsav
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
81
Integrated Report
Social and Relationship Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Channel Partner Engagement Initiatives
	
Introduced Communities for top performing retailers and 
incentivised them with experiential rewards:
•	 Havells Ambassadors
•	 Havells Advisors
	
Experiential Benefits for Retailers:
•	 1,000+ Retailers were taken for factory visits to Neemrana and 
Baddi where they also attended the annual conference with 
Havells senior leadership team, leaving them highly motivated 
•	 Meet & Greet & felicitation event for top 1,500 retailers with 
leadership team at Havells branch offices
•	 Digital screen installations at 800+ retail outlets
Electrician Engagement Initiatives
	
TRAINING & CERTIFYING 28,000 E-PLUS ELECTRICIANS
	
Maharath Programme – a Havells CSR Initiative with ESSCI 
(Electronic Sector Skills Council of India), was launched in 2024 
with the objective and commitment of:
•	 Giving back to the society
•	 Providing sustainable livelihood opportunities to the 
underprivileged youth
•	 Contributing to UN Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDG) 
and providing better outcomes for future generations
Beneficiaries trained under our ‘Maharath’ programme enjoy various benefits including pan India and international 
recognition as a certified and upskilled electrician, better career prospects, knowledge enhancement, and improved 
awareness about Havells new products and technologies.
Havells India Limited
82
	
Activities and Meet & Greet with electricians and their families:
•	 Electrician’s Day celebration – 400+ meets were organised over a week’s time, enabling us to connect and engage 
with 10,000 electricians
•	 Children’s Day with kids of electrician’s – Organised 250+ meets, connecting with approximately 5,000 kids
•	 Celebrating Occasions – Multiple occasions such as Independence Day, Diwali, New Year and other festivals were 
celebrated with electricians throughout the year
Building long-term relationships with suppliers
Significant advancements have been made in the direction of 
integrating ‘Samarthya’, our supplier collaboration portal, into 
our supplier management processes. The portal is an important 
landmark in our digital transition journey and signifies our 
commitment to promoting a more efficient, transparent, and 
paperless collaborative experience. It has been instrumental in 
enhancing our interaction with the suppliers by consolidating 
RFQs, quotations, cost management, performance 
tracking, delivery management, and payments into a single 
digital platform. 
The supplier registration process has been modernised to 
be digitally-efficient and user-friendly. With the introduction 
of a new automated system, suppliers are now able to 
complete their registrations and document verification online, 
minimising processing time and eliminating redundancies. 
This enhancement has already led to a significant reduction in 
administrative workload, allowing us to concentrate more on 
strategic supplier relationships. 
Customer Service Transformation Initiatives
In an ever-evolving and dynamic market, our commitment 
to customer-centricity remains steadfast, guided by 
the principles of growth, adaptability and continuous 
improvement. Every challenge we face strengthens our 
determination, while every success propels us toward 
greater excellence.
We strongly believe in our core value systems – Customer-
Centricity, Empathy and Ethics & Honesty. In line with these 
core values, the Service Transformation initiative with four 
core elements has been instrumental in driving consumer 
delight and service excellence, reinforcing our dedication to 
delivering an outstanding customer experience.
Havells product sourcing agreement has also been revised to 
include stringent clauses and is now more aligned with market 
standards, offering us improved pricing structures, enhanced 
delivery timelines, and greater flexibility in our sourcing 
strategies. We are confident that these changes will bolster 
our position within the marketplace.
Supplier Best Practice workshop, a collaborative session, was 
organised by the Company, enabling suppliers to demonstrate 
their key achievements and innovative solutions. During the 
workshop, suppliers presented their projects, emphasising the 
strategies and processes that have led to their success. They 
also showcased the best products and services provided 
by them, focussing on market-leading solutions available for 
horizontal deployment. This exchange of expertise enables 
both suppliers and clients to identify opportunities for 
enhancing efficiency, reducing costs, and adopting cutting-
edge technologies across various sectors.
Technology
Operations
Feedback
High Performance Team
Delight & 
Excellence
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
83
Integrated Report
Social and Relationship Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
High-
Performance 
Team
Driving 
Operational 
Excellence
The foundation of our service excellence lies in the skill sets 
and expertise of our technical workforce. To refine their 
competence further, 3,000 training sessions, encompassing 
34,000+ man days of technical and soft skill training were 
conducted, empowering our workforce of more than 13,000 
technicians to elevate service delivery.
A unique monthly virtual confluence, a harmonious assembly 
of our service fraternity and their extended kin, has fostered 
an unbreakable camaraderie – strengthening bonds not only 
within the team but also reinforcing an enduring allegiance to 
our brand through the spirit of collaborative synergy.
Our Annual ‘Sahyog’ Conference, held across 16 
distinguished locations, has further emboldened our 
organisational values, fortifying the alliance between Havells 
and its service partners. ‘Sahyog’ empowers 1,205 service 
partners to reap the benefit of QRG Growth Fund – an 
unparalleled initiative dedicated to wealth creation for our 
service allies. To safeguard the well-being of our workforce, 
we have further extended the mantle of security through an 
industry-first ‘Comprehensive Personal Accidental Insurance’ 
programme, covering all field technicians and  
service partners.
Technology 
Advancements
A crucial breakthrough this year was the launch of ‘Havells 
One’ app, a comprehensive platform that empowers 
consumers by offering a 360-degree relationship management 
experience, integrating both service support and sales 
functionalities.
As technology and AI-driven solutions gain prominence, we 
have embraced digital transformation to enhance customer 
interactions. A testament to this is our newly launched 
WhatsApp service handle which simplifies service registration 
and tracking, providing a seamless experience through  
Click-to-Action technology.
Our extensive network of over 2,250+ service partners 
ensures that all customer service requests across all pin 
codes are addressed efficiently. We exited FY 2024-25 with 
80% of service requests resolved within 24 hours, while 
90% were resolved within 72 hours. Our upgraded Inventory 
Management System also contributed to improved service 
delivery by ensuring that 91% of required spare parts were 
available within 24 hours, thereby maximising product uptime 
for our consumers.
The launch of service offerings, specially curated for 
consumers, under the Loyalty Programme and Quick 
Commerce, represents a significant milestone in our pursuit 
of operational excellence and underscores Havells’ steadfast 
commitment to customer-centricity.
Customer 
Feedback and 
Continuous 
Improvement
We value customer insights and have cultivated a culture 
of proactive responsiveness. Rooted in this, our enhanced 
Captive Grievance Cell ensures prompt action on consumer 
feedback.
Through in-depth Voice of Customer analysis, we develop and 
refine our market-driven strategies, driving higher consumer 
satisfaction and brand loyalty. Our NPS score of 70% and a 
technician rating of 4.3 (on a scale of 5) further reaffirm our 
commitment to operational excellence and service delivery.
As we move forward, our focus remains on innovation, 
efficiency, and customer delight, ensuring every interaction 
translates into a seamless and superior service experience.
Havells India Limited
84
Elevating End-Consumer Experience
A data-driven, digital-first strategy powers Havells to 
deliver a seamless convergence of digital and physical 
experiences for its consumers. Havells One Superapp, a 
notable initiative in this direction, offers a comprehensive 
digital experience across four areas – Shop, Service, Loyalty, 
and IoT. With over 1.32 million downloads and a 4.4-star 
rating on the Play Store, the app aims to create a powerful 
consumer engagement and community platform for the 
Havells ecosystem. 
Additionally, our AI-powered WhatsApp chatbot, which 
attracts over 2 lakh monthly visitors, offers our customers 
Our industry-first Havells Happiness consumer loyalty 
programme now has ~2.5 lakh registered loyalty members. 
Consumers join the programme for their love of the brand and 
its unique benefits. The goal is to boost repeat purchases and 
build brand advocacy. Early results are promising and we are 
excited about the value it will create for both the organisation 
and our consumers.
Data & AI serve as the foundation for our Consumer 
Experience (CX) activities, helping deliver omni-
channel personalised experiences, tailoring product 
recommendations, providing relevant tips on product usage 
and anticipating service needs. Leveraging its host of 
programmes and pioneering initiatives, Havells is firmly on 
the path towards ensuring exceptional experience for both its 
current & potential consumers.
an effective digital interaction platform. By facilitating 
various tasks such as raising service tickets, tracking loyalty 
benefits, and purchasing annual maintenance contracts, 
the chatbot plays a key role in enhancing our consumers’ 
post-purchase experience.
To further strengthen our Direct-to-Consumer (D2C) strategy, 
we launched a new website and an e-commerce portal, 
offering a seamless shopping experience. The initiatives 
enable consumers to seamlessly explore products, 
make secure purchases, and enjoy direct engagement 
with the brand.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
85
Integrated Report
Social and Relationship Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Natural Capital
ROOTED IN SUSTAINABILITY.  
GEARED FOR PROGRESS.
Natural resources is an integral part of Havells strategy 
and business operations, a reflection of our environmental 
stewardship. With ambitious targets to reduce our carbon 
footprints and minimising our increasing reliance on natural 
resources and the need to manage them responsibly, we 
continuously align our strategy to our sustainability goals. We also 
understand the importance of ecosystem services in facilitating 
smooth operations and continuously assess the potential risks 
if these services are compromised. In an effort to mitigate them 
and to create value across natural capital, we perpetually refine 
our sustainability approach, continuously innovating and pushing 
the boundaries of technology. Other than optimal utilisation of 
resources to minimise the environmental impact through several 
energy efficiency initiatives, water conservation and waste 
management programmes and efforts to protect biodiversity, 
we also promote responsible sourcing and procurement of 
raw materials. In the spirit of continuous improvement, we 
are relentlessly improving the way we monitor and track our 
sustainability progress and our attempts to make a positive 
contribution to global goals involving nature, climate and people.
SDGs Impacted
Material Topics
Governance 
Innovation R&D
M8
Environment 
Circular economy and waste 
management
M7
Environment 
Sustainable packaging
M16
Governance 
Sustainable sourcing and vendor 
management
M11
Environment 
Water stewardship and air quality 
improvement
M4
Environment 
Biodiversity
M17
Environment 
Product stewardship
M6
Environment 
Climate strategy & action
M1
Environment 
Sustainable manufacturing to 
achieve low carbon footprint product
M18
Havells India Limited
86
Key Performance Indicators
Share of renewable energy in 
total electricity consumed in 
FY 2024-25
Reduction in Water Consumption 
in FY 2024-25 compared to  
FY 2023-24
Increase in energy consumption 
from renewable sources as 
compared to FY 2023-24
Water recycled in  
FY 2024-25
Solar power generation capacity in 
FY 2024-25
Reduction in total Scope 1 & 2 
intensity as compared to  
FY 2023-24
Reduction in diesel 
consumption from base year 
FY 2012-13
Waste to Landfill Certification 
in FY 2024-25
Emissions mitigated with 
solar usage in FY 2024-25 
Reduction in Scope 1 emissions 
from FY 2023-24
Number of trees planted  
till date 
Total Renewable Energy 
Generated including Solar Energy 
in FY 2024-25
10%
5%
36%
42%
15.6 MW
18%
51%
Zero
10,992 tCO2e
32%
25+ Lakh
15,320 MWh 
Clean Technology Initiatives 
Havells over the years has made significant strides in the 
clean technology sector, focussing on renewable energy, 
energy efficiency, and sustainable manufacturing practices. 
Here’s an overview of the initiatives:
I.  Solar Energy Initiatives
Strategic Investment in Solar Sector
Havells has signed a binding term sheet to invest ` 600 crores 
in one of the largest strategic deals in India Solar sector. This 
move makes a strong presence in the renewables space. 
We already supply solar inverters, modules, DC switchgear, 
and solar cables, especially in the rooftop and commercial & 
industrial segments. With this investment, Havells positions 
itself firmly on the solar manufacturing map.
Expansion of Solar Capacity: Havells has increased its 
solar power generation capacity to 15.6 MW up by 39% 
from FY 2023-24. We have till date generated ~65,000 
MW of solar energy which has offset ~ 49,000 tCO2 from 
atmosphere. Further, there has been ~ 36% increase in 
consumption of energy through renewable sources from 
FY 2023-24.
II.  Emissions and Energy Management
Havells is committed to collectively and positively addressing 
climate change. Through various initiatives, including 
renewable energy utilisation, deployment of energy‑saving 
projects, tree plantations etc, the Company continuously 
endeavours to reduce its CO2 emissions. In FY 2024-25, we 
have reduced our per tonne GHG emission by 4.54% and 
Scope 1 emissions by 31.68% over FY 2023-24.
We have also embarked on a journey to substitute our Diesel 
fuel requirement with PNG and have eliminated 30,000 litres 
of diesel from our operations as compared to FY 2023-24.  
In FY 2024-25, we successfully completed 60+ energy saving 
projects, leading to a total energy savings of 4,309.81 MWh 
and CO2 mitigation to the tune of 3,133 TCO2e.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
87
Integrated Report
Natural Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
III.  Water Management
Havells is addressing water stress through a multi-pronged 
approach, including utilising lower quality water sources, 
prioritising water conservation, and implementing demand 
management strategies. There has been approximately 
5% reduction in water consumption in FY 2024-25 from 
FY 2023-24 while 42% of the water withdrawn has 
been recycled.
At Havells, water availability and quality are pivotal for smooth 
operations and sustainable progress. Water management 
is a key material issue for the Company, especially in water 
stressed areas, with water-related issues leading to strict 
regulatory actions and directly impacting our production 
capacities. Cognisant of depleting groundwater levels in 
the areas where we operate and committed to reducing 
our groundwater consumption every year, we are taking 
responsible action towards optimising water usage, 
minimising wastage, exploring alternatives, and collaborating 
with stakeholders, essential aspects to ensure operational 
continuity while maintaining our social licence.
To effectively conserve water resources, we have placed a 
strong emphasis on enhancing our operational efficiency. Our 
initiatives in this realm encompass various measures such as 
using treated water for domestic purposes and processes, 
utilising RO-rejected water for prewashing the utensils, 
reducing tap pressure, reusing compressor-dryer rejected 
water in cooling tower, reusing lab AC drain water in lab 
and cooling tower, auto water filling systems, dry testing of 
washing machines, adaption of Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD), 
zero loss drain valve etc.
The projects included optimising air compressor pressure, 
replacing old machines with energy-saving machines, 
installing motor sensors in rooms, installing VFD on induction 
motors, replacing conventional heaters in machines with 
induction heaters, reducing compressed air leakage etc.
In the financial year, we installed 4.4 MW solar power plants 
at Havells Alwar and Sricity facility, scaling up our total solar 
power capacity to 15.6 MW (approximately). With this, we 
are meeting 10% of our total electricity requirement through 
renewable energy sources and have achieved a significant 
10,992 tCO2e emissions reduction in FY 2024-25.
Other than adopting organisation-level energy conservation 
measures, Havells is also focussed on sensitising its 
employees on the importance of climate protection. Various 
employee awareness sessions are organised towards this, 
and employees are regularly trained on effective ways to  
save energy at the production facilities.
Havells’ comprehensive approach to clean technology and 
sustainability underscores its commitment to environmental 
responsibility and innovation in the energy sector. Some of 
our recent innovations include Q TRON MCCB: A next-gen 
modular circuit breaker designed to deliver superior safety, 
reliability and energy efficiency IE (International Efficiency) 
4 motors: High-efficiency industrial motors introduced to 
reduce energy consumption in continuous-use applications.
EnTrack smart energy management device: A smart energy 
management device using NILM technology to monitor and 
analyse home energy usage in real time.
Water Withdrawal and Consumption
Source (In Megalitres)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
All Locations
Stress Area
All Locations
Stress Area
Water Withdrawal by Source 
	 Ground Water
185.65
97.27
226.94
181.88
	 Third Party
119.58
78.38
117.10
49.39
	 Others
10.38
-
-
-
Total Water Withdrawal
315.61
175.65
344.04
231.27
Water Consumption
269.30
162.30
283.05
218.54
Category (In Megalitres)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Fresh Water
 Other Water
Fresh Water
 Other Water
Water Withdrawal
230.63
84.98
232.72
111.32
Furthering our dedication to responsible water stewardship, Havells initiated its participation in the CDP’s water security 
framework, and secured a ‘B’ rating in water security. The participation underscores our unwavering resolve to manage water-
related risks, improve water stewardship practices, and enhance long-term resilience. We aim to create a sustainable institution, 
which benefits the society at large, and the measure is much beyond just financial success.
Havells India Limited
88
Waste diverted from disposal
Hazardous waste diverted from disposal (MT)
Type of utilisation
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Re-cycled
1,197.05
1,442.05
Re-used
-
-
Other recovery options
60
53.92
Waste directed to disposal
Hazardous waste diverted to disposal (MT)
Type of utilisation
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Incineration (with energy recovery)
-
-
Incineration (without energy recovery)
0.03
4.18
Landfilling
-
2.68
Other disposal
-
-
Non-Hazardous waste diverted to disposal (MT)
Type of utilisation
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Incineration (with energy recovery)
-
-
Incineration (without energy recovery)
-
-
Landfilling
-
-
Other disposal
-
23,419.17
Non-Hazardous waste diverted from disposal (MT)
Type of utilisation
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Re-cycled
27,199.04
25,058.69
Re-used
14,246.89
3,682.11
Other recovery options
158.54
295.52
IV. Waste Management
Being a manufacturing company, proper waste handling and 
disposal, which are crucial to protecting the environment, 
ensuring environment safety, and avoiding penalties, is 
a priority at Havells. Inappropriate waste management 
practices can result in fines, litigation risks, and operational 
disruptions due to non-compliance. In view of this, Havells 
has established appropriate waste management processes 
for proper collection, segregation, and safe disposal of 
waste. In FY 2024-25, Havells have reduced the total waste 
generated by 20.57% over FY 2023-24.
To ensure safe disposal of hazardous waste, we collaborate 
with vendors who are approved and authorised by the Central 
Pollution Control Board and State Pollution Control Boards 
Embracing the Reduce, Reuse and Recycle (3R) approach, a 
series of initiatives have been implemented by the Company 
to minimise waste generation, ensure environmentally 
responsible disposal and promote a circular economy. One 
of these focusses on collaborating with various governmental 
and non-governmental organisations to develop integrated 
systems, processes, and controls to manage both hazardous 
and non-hazardous waste, in compliance with the national 
and state-level waste regulations.
A comprehensive recycling programme to divert waste from 
landfills and promote the reuse of materials has also been 
implemented by the Company. The programme encourages 
partnerships with local recycling facilities and waste 
management providers to ensure that recyclable materials 
such as paper, plastics, metals, and glass are properly 
sorted, collected, and recycled. In recognition of our waste 
management efforts, we have been awarded with a zero 
waste to landfill certificate by Intertek for all our manufacturing 
plants and corporate offices.
Hazardous & Non-Hazardous Waste
Segregation and responsible handling of hazardous and non-
hazardous waste is a crucial component of our sustainability 
strategy. Special emphasis is placed on storage, handling, 
transportation, and disposal of hazardous waste to safeguard 
human health and the environment. All hazardous waste 
is disposed through authorised dealers approved by the 
Central/State Pollution Control Boards.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
89
Integrated Report
Natural Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Net-Zero Journey
Havells is fully dedicated towards India’s goal of Carbon 
Net Zero by 2070. In this direction, we have embarked on 
an ambitious path in terms of manufacturing scale, while 
simultaneously transiting towards a low-carbon path. Our 
transformative initiatives that propel us towards a more 
sustainable future include active pursuit of renewable energy 
solutions, embracing energy efficiency measures and 
optimising water and waste management practices. While the 
Net-Zero Journey is a significant multi-decade commitment, 
it is important to remember that alongside climate protection, 
it brings a multitude of benefits for the business, shedding 
light into the entire operations of a company Aiming to set 
a definitive net-zero target year, we are strategically aligning 
our future roadmap with the Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi) framework. This proactive approach underscores 
Havells’ dedication to reducing greenhouse gas emissions 
and for generations to come.
Biodiversity
The world depends on nature for land, forests and water. 
Protecting the natural ecosystem is therefore crucial, not 
just for strengthening our business the resilience, but also to 
ensure the sustenance of communities where we operate. To 
integrate biodiversity into business strategy, Havells assesses 
its impacts and dependencies, implements sustainable 
practices, engages with stakeholders, and prioritises action 
through a mitigation hierarchy that aligns with its core values 
of environmental stewardship and sustainability. Implement 
restoration efforts to rehabilitate degraded ecosystems 
and enhance their resilience, Havells understands how 
their operations and supply chains impact biodiversity and 
how they depend on healthy ecosystems for resources 
and services, while sourcing raw material responsibly such 
as supporting biodiversity-friendly, promoting ecological 
resilience and community engagement to maintain healthy 
ecosystems that provide vital services like clean water, 
pollination, and climate regulation.
We are committed to ensuring that our activities do not harm 
the ecosystem where we operate. Special care is taken to 
ensure that our operational sites are not located near areas 
of high biodiversity value or protected areas. Moreover, tree 
plantation drives are also being organised by the Company to 
mitigate biodiversity loss.
On the World Environmental Day, we reaffirmed our 
commitment to environmental sustainability through engaging 
and impactful initiatives such as Green Selfie Activity, tree 
plantation drive, session on leading an eco-friendly lifestyle, 
land restoration, bird feeding, building bird houses, donation 
drives and sustainability workshops.
EPR
As a part of our commitment to sustainability and 
environmental stewardship, we have implemented a variety 
of initiatives under Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR). 
This involves various programmes and strategies to bring 
down waste generation, promote resource efficiency, and 
drive product accountability throughout its lifecycle – from 
production to disposal.
Optimistic about the positive impact of our initiatives on 
the environment. Havells is driving the transition towards a 
circular economy, significantly reducing the demand for raw 
materials and minimising waste. We are dedicated to creating 
products that are more sustainable, using fewer harmful 
materials, better recycling processes, and durable designs, 
further reducing the costs related to waste management. We 
are also actively working on broadening our waste collection 
strategies and simultaneously raising awareness about the 
importance of responsible waste disposal. 
An important aspect of our EPR commitment is encouraging 
our designers to consider end-of-life impact on product 
design. This could involve creating products that are easier 
to recycle, using materials that have lower environmental 
impact, or designing for reuse. We also participate in industry 
associations and working groups, detailing partnerships 
with recycling organisations, waste management entities, 
Havells India Limited
90
or compliance schemes focussed on EPR and product 
stewardship. Such participation enables sharing of best 
practices and advocating for policy reforms to strengthen 
EPR regulations and promote sustainable waste management 
practices across the industry. 
Overall, 5,477 MT of Plastic, 33,734 MT of E-Waste, and  
390 MT of Battery Waste have been collected and 
channelised through tie-ups with waste management 
agencies. The channelisation is in line with EPR rules for 
E-Waste, Plastic Waste, and Battery Waste.
Product Stewardship
Product stewardship is central to Havells’ dedication 
to sustainability. By promoting responsible designing, 
production, usage and disposal of our products, our product 
stewardship initiatives minimise environmental impact across 
the product life cycle, alongside enhancing customer trust 
and market differentiation.
We emphasise the importance of shared responsibility 
among all stakeholder’s producers, consumers, and disposal 
companies to consider and minimise the environmental 
impact of our products, from design to disposal. To 
reduce the need for product replacement and thereby limit 
consumption and excessive use of natural resources, we 
advocate maintenance and repair as practices to extend 
product lifecycle. Moreover, various programmes are 
organised to help consumers return our products for proper 
disposal, recycling, or repurposing, reducing or eliminating 
harmful substances that can pollute the environment or 
harm human health. We also collaborate with businesses, 
governments and consumers to ensure that the product 
lifecycle is managed responsibly. Other than integrating 
sustainability and innovation at the product development 
stage, we actively engage with our suppliers to ensure 
responsible sourcing of materials as well as conduct regular 
supplier assessment to promote sustainable manufacturing 
practices. Recycling initiatives are also instituted to promote 
reuse or recycling of materials, whenever possible.
Circular Economy
At Havells, we emphasise on sharing, leasing, reusing, 
repairing, refurbishing and recycling existing materials and 
products as long as possible, effectively extending product 
lifecycle and minimising waste. By implementing the principles 
of circular economy across all aspects of our operations, 
we aim to transform our business model into one that is 
regenerative, sustainable, and resource efficient.
Reusing and recycling of products plays a crucial role in 
slowing down the use of natural resources, reducing landscape 
and habitat disruption, and limiting biodiversity loss, in addition 
to. Reducing the harmful GHG emissions. To fully leverage 
on their benefits and promote circular economy, Havells 
employs product redesign as one of its central strategies. 
The strategy emphasises on integrating durability, reparability, 
and recyclability of products as crucial factors into the design 
process itself. By adopting modular designs and using eco-
friendly materials, the Company ensures that its products can 
be easily disassembled, repaired, and recycled at the end of 
their lifecycle, thus minimising waste and maximising resource 
utilisation. Additionally, our take-back and refurbishment 
programme, encourages customers to return used products 
for refurbishment and resale. This not only extends the 
lifespan of the products but also reduces the demand for new 
resources, diminishing the environmental impact associated 
with manufacturing of new goods. For maximum impact, any 
damaged or warranty-expired products are dismantled and 
recycled within a circular economy framework, after undergoing 
adequate safety tests and quality checks.
91
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Integrated Report
Natural Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Puneet Bhatia
Non-Executive
Non-Independent 
Director
N
Chief Executive Officer
1
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
3
Whole-time Director
3
Independent Director
7
Board summary
Board Independence
Siddhartha Pandit
Whole-time Director
Ashish Bharat Ram
Independent Director
N
Jalaj Ashwin Dani
Independent Director
C
R
S
Namrata Kaul
Independent Director
A
N
T.V. Mohandas Pai
Non-Executive
Non-Independent Director
R
Anil Rai Gupta
Chairman and Managing 
Director
R
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Whole-time Director
and Group CFO
C
Governance
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Havells India Limited
92
Member 
Chairman 
Audit Committee
A
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
N
Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental, Social and Governance Committee
C
Enterprises Risk Management Committee
R
Stakeholders Relationship / Grievance Redressal Committee	

S
Committees 
Surjit Kumar Gupta
Non-Executive
Non-Independent Director
C
S
Subhash S. Mundra
Independent Director
R
S
Vivek Mehra
Independent Director
C
Ameet Kumar Gupta
Whole-time Director
Upendra Kumar Sinha
Independent Director
A
B. Prasada Rao
Independent Director
A
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
93
Integrated Report
Board of Directors
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Company Secretary
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Auditors
Statutory Auditors
Price Waterhouse & Co
Chartered Accountants LLP
Internal Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
Cost Auditors
Chandra Wadhwa & Co
Cost Accountants
Secretarial Auditors
Balika Sharma and Associates
Company Secretaries
Registrars and Share Transfer Agent
MUFG Intime India Private Limited
Noble Heights, 1st Floor,
Plot No. NH 2, LSC, C-1 Block,
Near Savitri Market,
Janakpuri, New Delhi-110058
Telephone: 011-49411000
Email: delhi@in.mpms.mufg.com
Website: www.in.mpms.mufg.com
Listed on
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
BSE Limited
Bankers
Yes Bank Limited
Standard Chartered Bank
Citi Bank
DBS Bank Limited
IDBI Bank Limited
ICICI Bank Limited
HSBC Limited
HDFC Bank Limited
IndusInd Bank Limited
Registered Office
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building,
K G Marg, Connaught Place,
New Delhi - 110 001
Corporate Office
QRG Towers, 2D, Sector - 126,
Expressway, Noida - 201 304 (U.P.)
Tel: +91-120-3331000
Website: www.havells.com
CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Havells India Limited
94
Directors’ Report
Your Directors are pleased to present the 42nd Annual Report (Integrated) on the business and operations of the Company and the 
audited financial statements for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025.
1.	
Financial Summary or Highlights
	
The Board’s Report is prepared based on the standalone financial statements of the Company. The Company’s financial 
performance for the year under review alongwith previous year’s figures are given hereunder -
	
Financial Summary
(` in Crores)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
Revenue from operations
 21,746 
 18,550 
 21,778 
 18,590 
Other income
 302 
 249 
 303 
 249 
Total Income
 22,048 
 18,799 
 22,081 
 18,839 
Cost of material consumed
 14,589 
 12,537 
 14,609 
 12,569 
Employee benefit expense
 1,852 
 1,541 
 1,870 
 1,548 
Finance costs
 43 
 46 
 43 
 46 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
 399 
 338 
 400 
 339 
Other Expenses 
  - Advertisement & Sales Promotion 
 622 
 527 
 624 
 527 
  - Others
 2,534 
 2,100 
 2,545 
 2,103 
Profit before Tax
 2,009 
 1,710 
 1,990 
 1,707 
Less : Tax
 520 
 437 
 520 
 437 
Profit for the year
 1,489 
 1,273 
 1,470 
 1,271 
Other Comprehensive Income
 (22)
 (5)
 (21)
 (5)
Total Comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 1,466 
 1,268 
 1,449 
 1,266 
	
Havells India revenue grew 17.2% in FY 2024-25 over 
the previous year. Margins remained intact, however the 
overheads increased at a slightly higher rate on account of 
continued investment in the brand and talent. Advertising 
expenses were higher by 18.0% and the employee 
benefit expenses rose by 20.2%. During the year, the 
Company incurred capital expenditure of ` 798 crores. 
Annual depreciation was higher with commissioning of 
two new plants recently. The profit before tax increased 
by 17.5% to ` 2,009 crores in FY 2024-25 from ` 1,710 
crores in FY 2023-24.
2.	
Brief Description of the Company’s Working 
During the Year/ State of Company’s Affairs
	
FY 2024-25 was marked by subdued consumer demand, 
while industrial and infrastructure trends remained 
encouraging. Persistent inflation continues to impact the 
consumer spending. Real estate activity has seen a notable 
uptick over the past few years, however the benefits are yet 
to be reflected across electricals and consumer durables. 
	
Against this backdrop, Havells saw decent revenue 
growth, supported by its diversified product portfolio.
	
Segment wise performance (standalone):
(` in Crores)
Segments
2024-25
2023-24
Revenue
Segment 
Results
Segment 
Results (%)
Revenue
Segment 
Results
Segment 
Results (%)
Switchgears
 2,395 
539
22.5%
2,245
596
26.5%
Cables
 7,184 
772
10.7%
6,318
716
11.3%
Lighting and fixtures
 1,653 
254
15.3%
1,627
247
15.2%
Electrical consumer durables
 4,011 
399
10.0%
3,482
387
11.1%
Lloyd Consumer
5,123
131
2.6%
3,785
(164)
(4.3)%
Others
1,379
25
1.8%
1,094
25
2.2%
Total
21,746
2,120
9.7%
18,550
1,807
9.7%
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
95
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
During the year, switchgear segment revenue grew 
6.7% primarily led by growth in switches and domestic 
switchgear while industrial switchgears experienced 
softness. 
Cables segment saw 13.7% revenue growth as it 
witnessed demand fluctuations led by sharp volatility 
in copper prices, particularly impacting flexible cables 
revenues. Power Cables performance was supported 
by gradual easing out of capacity constraints as Havells 
commissioned new manufacturing capacity in Tumakuru 
during the year.
Lighting segment continue to face headwinds with LED 
price deflation during the year. Havells, with a healthy 
volume growth and a focus on driving product mix 
towards value-added lighting products, minimised the 
impact of deflation to some extent and grew the revenues 
by 1.6%.
Electrical 
Consumer 
Durables 
(ECDs) 
regained 
momentum with healthy growth of 15.2% and market 
share gains during the year. Favourable summer season 
also supported the demand for cooling products like fans 
and air coolers.
Driven by investments in the emerging categories, 
Havells “Others” segment accelerated its revenue growth 
to 26.1%. It includes motor, solar, pumps, personal 
grooming and water purifier product categories.
Lloyd delivered robust revenue growth of 35.3% as it 
capitalised on a strong summer season, improved brand 
strength and expanded channel presence. Revenue 
growth along with focussed efforts towards cost 
efficiencies, Lloyd achieved segment level profitability. It 
continues to drive improvement in consumer advocacy, 
upliftment of brand image and premiumisation.
In addition to expanding existing international export 
business, the Company took several initiatives to tap the 
growing opportunity across switchgears, cables, lighting 
and air conditioners. During the year, Havells recorded 
healthy growth in export revenues, with developed 
markets revenue growing at a relatively faster rate.
Havells continued its aggressive investments in core 
growth pillars – Brand, Omni-Channel, Innovation, 
Digitisation and Talent. ` 622 crores were invested during 
the year in brand building through advertising spends. 
Identifying South as a large opportunity to strengthen 
its brands, the Company inducted additional brand 
ambassadors including Vijay Sethupathi for Lloyd and 
celebrity couple Nayanthara and Vignesh for Havells.
To strengthen its presence across all consumer 
touchpoints, the Company deepened its engagement 
with alternate emerging channels including modern 
format retail, e-commerce, quick commerce, semi-urban 
and rural areas. Alongside, sustained investments were 
made in digitisation and R&D. During the year, Havells 
also invested in augmenting its manufacturing capacities 
and announced large capital expenditure for higher sized 
cables plant in Tumakuru, Karnataka and refrigerators plant 
in Ghiloth, Rajasthan. Talent investments were focussed 
across emerging categories, alternate channels and R&D, 
while the frontline team of In-Shop Demonstrators (ISD) 
was bolstered to enhance direct consumer engagement.
The Company continues to maintain financial discipline & 
uphold strong corporate governance while keeping its capital 
allocation aligned with the intent of creating stakeholder 
value. A consistent dividend payout was maintained with a 
healthy balance sheet and cash flow generation.
	
Subsidiary 
Companies, 
Joint 
Venture 
and 
Consolidated Financial Statements
As on 31st March 2025, the Company has four subsidiary 
companies, two being direct subsidiaries and the other 
two being step-down subsidiaries, all of which are 
registered outside India. The two Direct subsidiaries are:
•	
Havells Guangzhou International Limited based at 
China and
•	
Havells International Inc based in United States of 
America (USA).
The Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the period 
ended 31st March 2025, includes the Profit and Loss Account for 
the subsidiaries Havells Guangzhou International Limited, 
Havells International Inc, Havells HVAC LLC and Havells 
Lighting LLC for the complete Financial Year ended 31st 
March, 2025. The Board of Directors of the Company 
has, by Resolution passed in its Meeting held on 22nd April 
2025, given consent for not attaching the Balance Sheet 
of the subsidiaries concerned. The Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Company including the subsidiaries 
are presented in the Integrated Annual Report. The 
consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
strict compliance with applicable Accounting Standards 
and wherever applicable, the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as 
prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India. A Report on Performance and Financial Position 
of the subsidiaries included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements is presented in a separate section in this 
Integrated Annual Report. Please refer (Form No. AOC-1) 
annexed to the Financial Statements in the Integrated 
Annual Report.
The standalone annual accounts of the subsidiary 
companies and the detailed related information shall be 
made available to Shareholders of the Company and 
of its subsidiary companies upon request and it shall 
also be made available on the website of the Company 
i.e. https://havells.com/corporate/investors/financials. 
The annual accounts of the subsidiary companies shall 
also be kept for inspection by any shareholder in the Head 
Office of the Company and the office of its subsidiary 
companies.
Havells India Limited
96
3.	
Names of Companies which have become or 
ceased to be its Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures or 
Associate Companies during the year
	
There are no companies which have become or ceased 
to be subsidiaries and/ or associate of the Company 
during the financial year 2024-25.
4.	
Reserves
	
Your Directors do not propose to transfer any amount to 
the general reserves and the entire amount of profit for the 
year forms part of the ‘Retained Earnings’.
5.	
Dividend
	
In line with the Dividend Policy of the Company which 
is available in the ‘Codes & Policies’ section in the 
Investors section on the website of the Company and 
can be accessed at https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/
PDF/Code-and-policies/Dividend_policy.pdf, the Board 
of Directors, in its Meeting held on 16th January, 2025, 
declared an interim dividend of ` 4/- per equity share of 
face value of ` 1/- each, to all the Shareholders who were 
recorded on the Register of Members as on 22nd January, 
2025, being the record date fixed for this purpose.
	
In addition to the Interim Dividend, your Directors are 
pleased to recommend a Final Dividend @ ` 6.00/- per 
equity share for the financial year 2024-25. The proposed 
dividend, subject to approval of Shareholders in the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting of the Company, would 
result in appropriation of ` 376.17crores (inclusive of 
TDS). The dividend would be payable to all Shareholders 
whose names appear in the Register of Members as on 
the Book Closure Date. The Register of Members and 
Share Transfer books shall remain closed from 26th May, 
2025, Monday to 30th May, 2025, Friday (both days 
inclusive).
6.	
Share Capital
	
During the year, the Company issued and allotted 
2,58,702 Equity Shares of ` 1/- each of the Company, 
pursuant to the Employee Stock Purchase Plans of 
the Company. As a result of the allotment, the paid-up 
share capital increased to ` 62,69,41,732 comprising 
62,69,41,732 Equity Shares of ` 1/- each. The shares so 
allotted rank pari passu with the existing share capital of 
the Company. Apart from the same, there was no other 
change in the share capital of the Company.
7.	
Material changes and commitments, if any, 
affecting the financial position of the Company 
which have occurred between the end of the 
financial year of the Company to which the 
financial statements relate and the date of the 
Report
	
No material changes and commitments affecting the 
financial position of the Company occurred between 
the end of the financial year to which these financial 
statements relate and the date of this Report. However, in 
terms of the Employee Stock Purchase Schemes of the 
Company, which are administered by Havells Employees 
Welfare Trust, 4,02,848 Equity Shares of ` 1/- each, were 
approved for Grant on April 21, 2025 and Vested (pursuant 
to the respective Employee Stock Purchase Schemes as 
hereunder) to the eligible employees, which, if exercised, 
shall result in an equivalent no. of Equity Shares of ` 1/- 
each to be allotted/ transferred to the eligible employees 
under the respective schemes.
	
A summary is given below:
No. of Shares 
Granted
No. of 
Shares 
Vested
Havells Employees Stock 
Purchase Plan 2014
74,115 
73,082 
Havells Employees Stock 
Purchase Scheme 2015
1,50,000 
1,50,000 
Havells Employees Stock 
Purchase Scheme 2016
44,043
 41,607* 
Havells Employees Stock 
Purchase Scheme 2022
1,34,690 
 57,232** 
* Out of 41,607 Shares Granted for FY 2024-25, 18,566 Shares 
Vested out of Grants for FY 2024-25, 14,006 Shares Vested 
out of Grants for FY 2023-24 and 9,035 Shares Vested out of 
Grants for FY 2022-23.
** Out of 57,232 Shares Granted for FY 2024-25, 21,519 Shares 
Vested out of Grants for FY 2024-25, 19,628 Shares Vested out 
of Grants for FY 2023-24, 12,529 Shares Vested out of Grants 
for FY 2022-23 and 3,556 Shares Vested out of Grants for 
FY 2021-22.
8.	
Change in the nature of business, if any
	
There was no change in the nature of business 
of the Company during the financial year ended 
31st March, 2025.
9.	
Details of Directors or Key Managerial Personnel 
including those who were appointed or have 
resigned during the year 
	
During the financial year 2024-25, no changes took 
place in the composition of the Board of Directors of the 
Company.
	
Retirement 
by 
rotation 
and 
subsequent 
re-appointment
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 152 of the 
Companies Act, 2013, Shri Siddhartha Pandit (DIN: 
03562264) and Shri Anil Rai Gupta (DIN: 00011892), are 
due to retire by rotation at the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting, and being eligible, offer themselves for re-
appointment.
	
The Board recommends their re-appointment.
	
Re-appointment of Whole-time Director(s)
	
Shri Siddhartha Pandit (DIN: 03562264), Whole-time 
Director, was last re-appointed by the Shareholders of the 
Company in the Annual General Meeting held in 2021 for 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
97
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
a term of 3 (Three) years with effect from 29th May, 2022. 
His term is expiring on 28th May, 2025. 
	
Accordingly, 
the 
Board 
of 
Directors, 
upon 
the 
recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, in its Meeting held on 21st April, 2025, has 
approved the re-appointment of Shri Siddhartha Pandit, 
as a Whole-time Director of the Company for another term 
of 3 (Three) years with effect from 29th May, 2025. The re-
appointment is subject to approval of the shareholders in 
general meeting and the Board recommends the same at 
the ensuing AGM.
	
Changes in Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
	
During the year under review, there were no changes in 
the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company. Pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 203 of the Act, the following 
are the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company as on 
March 31, 2025:
	
1.	
Shri Anil Rai Gupta, Chairman and Managing 
Director & CEO
	
2.	
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, Whole-time Director
	
3.	
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Whole-time Director & 
Group CFO
	
4.	
Shri Siddhartha Pandit, Whole-time Director
	
5.	
Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, Senior Vice President & 
Company Secretary
10.	 Number of Meetings of the Board of Directors
	
During the financial year 2024-25, 5 (Five) meetings of the 
Board of Directors of the Company were held. For details 
of meetings of the Board, please refer to the Corporate 
Governance Report, which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
	
Pursuant to the requirements of Schedule IV to the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, a 
separate Meeting of the Independent Directors of the 
Company was also held on 19th March, 2025, without the 
presence of Non-Independent Directors and members of 
the management, to inter alia review the performance of 
Non-Independent Directors and the Board as a whole, 
the performance of the Chairperson of the Company, 
taking into account the views of Executive Directors, 
Non-Executive Directors and also to assess the quality, 
quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the 
Company Management and the Board.
11.	 Directors’ Responsibility Statement
	
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) of the Companies Act, 
2013, the Directors to the best of their knowledge hereby 
state and confirm that:
	
a.	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards had been followed 
along with proper explanation relating to material 
departures, if any;
	
b.	
the Directors had selected such accounting policies 
and applied them consistently and made judgements 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so 
as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Company at the end of the financial year and of 
the profit and loss of the Company for that period;
	
c.	
the Directors had taken proper and sufficient care 
for the maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of this 
Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
	
d.	
the Directors had prepared the annual accounts on 
a going concern basis;
	
e.	
the Directors had laid down internal financial 
controls to be followed by the Company and that 
such internal financial controls are adequate and 
were operating effectively; and
	
f.	
the Directors had devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
12.	 Declaration by Independent Director(s) and re-
appointment, if any
	
All the Independent Directors have submitted their 
disclosures to the Board that they fulfil all the requirements 
as stipulated in Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, so as 
to qualify themselves to be appointed as Independent 
Directors under the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the relevant rules thereof.
	
In the opinion of the Board, they fulfil the condition for 
appointment/ re-appointment as Independent Director 
on the Board. Further, in the opinion of the Board, the 
Independent Directors also possess the attributes 
of integrity, expertise and experience as required to 
be disclosed under Rule 8(5)(iiia) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014.
13.	 Policy on Directors’ appointment and remuneration 
and other matters provided under Section 178(3)
	
Assessment and appointment of members to the Board 
is based on a combination of criteria that includes ethics, 
personal and professional stature, domain expertise, 
gender diversity and specific qualifications required for the 
position. For appointment of an Independent Director, the 
independence criteria defined in Section 149(6) of the Act 
and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
are also considered.
Havells India Limited
98
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the 
Board of Directors is dedicatedly ensuring the continuance 
of a dynamic and forward-thinking Board and recommends 
to the Board qualified candidates for directorship. 
	
The Company’s Policy relating to appointment of 
Directors, payment of managerial remuneration, Directors’ 
qualifications, positive attributes, independence of 
Directors and other matters as provided under Section 
178(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 is furnished in 
ANNEXURE – 1 and forms part of this Report.
	
The Policy is also available in the Investors section, 
under the ‘Codes & Policies’ tab, on the website of the 
Company and can be accessed at the web-link https://
havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/Code-and-policies/
Nomination-and-Remuneration-Policy.pdf
14.	 Formal Annual Evaluation
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 17(10) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and 
in accordance with the parameters suggested by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board of 
Directors carried out an annual evaluation for the financial 
year 2024-25, of its own performance, its Committees 
and Individual Directors. The evaluation was undertaken 
by way of internal assessments, based on a combination 
of detailed questionnaires and verbal discussions.
	
Performance Evaluation of the Board and 
Committees
	
The performance of the Board was evaluated by the 
Board Members after considering inputs from all the 
Directors primarily on:
	
•	
Board composition and quality with emphasis on its 
size, diversity, skill set of members;
	
•	
Periodic review of the Company’s management 
and internal control system for appropriateness and 
relevance;
	
•	
Board process and procedure with emphasis on the 
frequency of meetings, attendance thereof and flow 
of information;
	
•	
Oversight of the Financial Reporting process 
including Internal Controls and Audit Functions;
	
•	
Engagement in Corporate Governance, ethics and 
compliance with the Company’s code of conduct.
	
The Board evaluated the performance of the Committees 
on the following parameters:
	
•	
Appropriateness of size and composition;
	
•	
Clarity of mandate and well-defined agenda;
	
•	
Reporting to the Board on the Committee’s activities;
	
•	
Availability of appropriate internal and external 
support or resources to the Committees.
	
Performance Evaluation of Individual Directors 
	
The performance evaluation of the Individual Directors 
were carried out by the Board and other Individual 
Directors, considering aspects such as:
	
•	
Display of effective leadership qualities and skill;
	
•	
Implementation of observations/ recommendations 
of Board Members;
	
•	
Effective and timely resolution of grievances of Board 
Members;
	
•	
Ability to bring convergence in case of divergent 
views and conflict of interest situation tabled at 
Board meetings;
	
•	
Sufficient knowledge of Company strategy and 
objective;
	
•	
Understand their role as Director, as distinct from 
management;
	
•	
Adequate and productive use of knowledge and 
experience of the Independent Directors for the 
functioning of Board;
	
•	
Efforts for professional development to enable better 
fulfilment of their responsibilities;
	
•	
Ask questions/ critique proposals with confidence;
	
•	
Open 
and 
effective 
participation 
in 
Board 
discussions;
	
•	
Keep stakeholder interest as the touchstone in 
endorsing decisions.
	
Evaluation Outcome
	
The outcome brought out that the Board is effective 
and follows highest standards of Corporate Governance 
practices. There is transparency in the working of 
the Board. Board members contribute effectively on 
monitoring performance, compliance and strategy. 
Assumptions of management are challenged and 
future course of action decided by the Board. The 
Audit Committee regularly meet the auditors separately. 
Meetings of Independent Directors are held regularly with 
the Auditors and findings shared with the Chairman and 
with the Board. The Company scores very high in timely 
communication of agenda, facilitating discussions and 
recording minutes truthfully.
	
The Board Committees well support the effective 
performance of the Board. The suggestions given in the 
Committee meetings are willingly implemented by the 
management.
	
The Independent Directors are from diverse fields 
of management. They regularly review the practices 
in governance, compliance, ATR on audit findings, 
succession planning etc.
	
The non-independent Directors are strong in their 
respective areas and contribute immensely for the 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
99
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
performance of the Company. They have outstanding 
knowledge of the sector, business issues of the Company 
and the emerging local and global developments. They 
also exhibit willingness to evaluate and implement 
suggestions from the independent Directors.
	
The Chairman is a visionary leader, highly knowledgeable 
in all aspects of the Company, its businesses and 
products. He strongly demonstrates Leadership in 
Consensus building and takes the Team together for 
delivering Excellent Performance. Most importantly 
he has put in place a well thought succession plan 
acceptable to all. He is a highly recognised industry leader 
known for his understanding and grip over the sector. The 
Chairman is open, transparent, collegial, listens to views 
of Board members and acts on them, upholds the highest 
standards of corporate governance.
15.	 Annual Return
	
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(a) read with Section 92(3) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, the Annual Return of the 
Company is available on the website of the Company at 
https://havells.com/corporate/investors/disclosure
16.	 Auditors
	
1.	
Statutory Auditors
	
	
As per provisions of Section 139(1) of the Companies 
Act, 2013, the Company has appointed M/s Price 
Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP 
(Registration No. 304026E/E300009) as Statutory 
Auditors for a period of 5 (Five) years in the AGM of 
the Company held on 30th June, 2021.
	
	
Statutory Auditors’ Report
	
	
The observations of the Statutory Auditor in its 
reports on standalone and consolidated financials 
are self-explanatory and therefore do not call for any 
further comments.
	
	
Details in respect of frauds reported by auditors
	
	
There were no instances of fraud reported by the 
auditors.
	
2.	
Cost Auditors
	
	
As per Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
the Company is required to have the audit of its 
cost records conducted by a Cost Accountant in 
practice.
	
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 141 read with 
Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules 
made thereunder, M/s Chandra Wadhwa & Co., 
Cost Accountants (Firm Regn. No. 000239) were 
appointed as the Cost Auditor of the Company for 
the year ending 31st March, 2025.
	
	
The due date for filing the Cost Audit Report of the 
Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 
2024 was 29th May, 2024 and the same was filed in 
XBRL mode by the Cost Auditor within the due date.
	
	
Disclosure on maintenance of Cost Records
	
	
The Company made and maintained the Cost 
Records under Section 148 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (18 of 2013) for the financial year 2024-25.
	
3.	
Secretarial Auditors
	
	
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
the Board of Directors approves and recommends 
for shareholders’ approval the appointment of 
M/s MZ & Associates (Firm Registration No. 
P2014DE040000) for a first term of 5 (five) years 
beginning from financial year 2025-26.
	
	
Secretarial Audit Report
	
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with corresponding Rules 
framed thereunder, M/s Balika Sharma & Associates, 
Company Secretaries, were appointed as the 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company to carry out the 
secretarial audit for the year ending 31st March, 2025.
	
	
In terms of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 24A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
a Secretarial Audit Report given by the Secretarial 
Auditors in Form No. MR-3 is annexed with 
this Report as ANNEXURE – 2. There are no 
qualifications, reservations or adverse remarks 
made by Secretarial Auditors in their Report. 
	
	
Annual Secretarial Compliance Report
	
	
A Secretarial Compliance Report for the financial 
year ended 31st March, 2025 on compliance of 
all applicable SEBI Regulations and circulars/ 
guidelines issued thereunder, was obtained from M/s 
Balika Sharma & Associates, Company Secretaries, 
Secretarial Auditors.
17.	 Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments 
under Section 186
	
The particulars of loans given, investments made and 
guarantees provided by the Company under Section 186 
of the Companies Act, 2013, have been disclosed in the 
financial statements provided in this Integrated Annual 
Report. Please refer to Note No. 33(14) of the Standalone 
Financial Statements.
18.	 Particulars of Contracts or Arrangements with 
Related Parties
	
All contracts or arrangements entered into by the 
Company with its related parties during the financial year 
were in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
The Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and 
on dealing with Related Party Transactions as approved 
by the Board is available on the Company’s website and 
Havells India Limited
100
can be accessed at https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/
PDF/Code-and-policies/Related_Party_Transactions_
Policy.pdf There were no materially significant related 
party transactions which could have potential conflict 
with the interests of the Company at large. The Company 
did not enter into any contract/ arrangement/ transaction 
with related parties which is required to be reported in 
Form No. AOC-2 in terms of Section 134(3)(h) read with 
Section 188 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014.
	
Members may refer to Note No. 33(6) of the Standalone 
Financial Statements which sets out related party 
disclosures pursuant to Ind AS.
19.	 Contribution to Exchequer
	
The Company is a regular payer of taxes and other 
duties to the Government. During the year under review 
your Company paid ` 523.85 crores towards Corporate 
Income Tax as Compared to ` 387.88 Crores paid during 
the last financial year.
	
The Company has also paid an amount of ` 4,751.34 
crores on account of GST and Custom duty as compared 
to ` 3,973.11 crores paid during last Financial Year.
20.	 Details relating to deposits covered under Chapter 
V of the Companies Act, 2013
	
The Shareholders vide their Special Resolution dated 
9th June, 2014, passed by way of Postal Ballot, have 
approved inviting/ accepting/ renewing deposits, in terms 
of the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, making the 
Company eligible for the same. However, the Company has 
not accepted any deposits during the year under review.
21.	 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
	
Havells has a strong belief that social responsibility is an 
integral part of our philosophy. This commitment is reflected 
in our business practices, accountability and dedication 
to enhancing the well-being or communities and society 
through our environmental and social initiatives. 
	
The Company has in place a CSR Policy framed in 
accordance with the requirements of Section 135 of the 
Companies Act and Rules framed thereunder.
	
The CSR Policy is available on the website of the 
Company at https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/
Code-and-policies/CSR_Policy.pdf
	
Throughout the year, the Company expanded its CSR 
initiatives, focusing on key areas including Health and 
Nutrition, Education, Skill Development, Sanitation, 
Environment 
and 
National 
Sports. 
These 
efforts 
demonstrate our commitment to creating a positive 
impact in the communities we serve.
	
The details are available in the Social Capital section of 
this Integrated Annual Report.
	
An Annual Report on CSR, setting out the disclosures 
as per Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 alongwith the executive 
summary of Impact Assessment Report is annexed 
herewith as ANNEXURE – 3.
22.	 Audit Committee
	
As at 31st March, 2025, the Audit Committee of the 
Board of Directors of the Company comprised 3 (Three) 
Members, namely Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha, Smt. 
Namrata Kaul, Shri Bontha Prasada Rao, all of whom are 
Independent Directors.
	
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha, an Independent Director, 
is the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The Board 
accepted the recommendations of the Audit Committee 
whenever made by the Committee during the year.
23.	 Integrated Risk Management Framework
	
Integrated Risk Management at Havells: A 
Comprehensive Approach
	
Havells has established a robust foundation for its risk 
management framework by adopting the internationally 
recognized COSO framework. This framework is critical 
in integrating risk management functions into business 
processes and verticals throughout the organization. A 
significant emphasis is placed on the adoption of Next 
Generation Technologies that support an enterprise-
wide view of risk and compliance, fostering a more 
holistic approach. These technologies enhance agility, 
productivity, efficiency and informed decision-making.
	
Integrated Risk Management Framework
	
The 
integrated 
risk 
management 
framework 
is 
instrumental in assisting management to identify the 
optimal options for mitigating identified risks, aligning with 
the organization’s strategy, objectives and risk appetite.
	
To oversee the company’s risk management strategy, 
the Board of Directors has established the Enterprises 
Risk Management (ERM) Committee. This committee 
supervises how management ensures adherence to the 
company’s risk management policies and procedures 
and evaluates the suitability of the risk management 
framework considering the risks the company faces. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
101
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
	
The ERM framework addresses critical risks related to each 
business, function and location within the organization. A 
business-centric approach is utilized to identify potential 
business risks, develop response strategies and assign 
these to business and functional risk owners. Business, 
functional and location teams collaborate closely with 
the head of risk management to identify risks, monitor 
performance and implement decided-upon actions. The 
ERM Committee is updated biannually on the status of all 
material risks along with risk treatment plan & action.
	
The ERM Council and Leadership Council offer guidance 
for evaluating the risk maturity level and identifying 
emerging business challenges. During the year, the 
company has conducted a comprehensive self-
benchmarking exercise, incorporating both global and 
domestic standards and practices as well as function-
specific risk maturity assessments. Additionally, the 
company’s Information Security Management System 
holds ISO 27001:2022 certification.
24.	 Details with respect to the adequacy of internal 
financial controls with reference to the Financial 
Statements
	
Internal Financial Control & Assurance Framework
	
Havells has robust internal financial controls (IFC) systems, 
in line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2013. 
This system enhances transparency and accountability in 
the organization’s process of designing and implementing 
internal controls. The company has a clearly defined 
Governance, Risk & Compliance Framework, Policies, 
Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), and Financial 
& Operational Delegation of Authority (DOA). Global 
ERP Platform & GRC systems facilitate mapping with 
role-based authority to business and functional teams, 
ensuring smooth operations across the organization. The 
company’s internal control systems are commensurate 
with the nature & size of its business considering both 
financial & non-financial controls.
	
The IFC process helps the company to operate in an 
orderly and effective manner by ensuring adherence to 
rules, asset protection, fraud and error prevention and 
detection, accurate and comprehensive accounting 
records and timely preparation of trustworthy financial 
information. This system safeguards the interests of all 
stakeholders and optimizes resource utilization. 
	
Internal Audit Function
	
The company’s Internal Audit function conducts risk-
based audits. The Audit Committee approves the strategy 
and reviews major findings quarterly, including root cause 
analysis and action status. Each business function has 
a corresponding Risk Control Matrix (RCM), mapped to 
the Functional Dashboard, Compliance Management 
System, and GRC Process Control. This internal control 
framework ensures compliance with all relevant rules and 
legislation.
25. 	Details of the establishment of Vigil Mechanism 
for Directors and Employees
	
The company has established a Vigil Mechanism called 
“Satark” for its Directors and employees to submit 
legitimate grievances or concerns, offering adequate 
protections against misuse by those who utilize this 
mechanism. All employees and business associates 
have access to this mechanism to report any instances 
of fraud, irregularity, wrongdoing, or unethical activity. 
A designated team conducts unbiased investigations 
into reported issues, ensuring professional, ethical, and 
confidential conduct. Even the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee is mapped to complaints received under 
the Satark policy. This policy can also be found on the 
company’s website.
	
Havells comprehensive approach to integrated risk 
management and internal financial controls reflects its 
commitment to maintaining high standards of governance, 
transparency and accountability. 
26.	 Details of significant and material orders passed 
by the regulators or courts or tribunals impacting 
the going concern status and Company’s 
operations in future
	
There was no significant and material order passed by 
the regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going 
concern status and Company’s operations in future.
27.	 Compliance with Secretarial Standards
	
The Company is in compliance with the applicable 
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India and approved by the Central 
Government under Section 118(10) of the Act.
28. 	Prevention of Sexual Harassment
	
As a responsible employer, Havells has always been 
conscious of its duty towards prevention and control 
of sexual harassment at workplace. The Company has 
complied with provisions relating to the constitution 
of Internal Complaints Committee under the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (the POSH 
Act) and has in place a “Nirbhaya” policy for women 
employees. An Internal Complaints Committee has been 
constituted as per the Policy to provide a forum to all 
female personnel to lodge complaints (if any) and seek 
redressal. The Committee conducts interactive sessions, 
from time to time, to sensitise female employees about 
the provisions of the POSH Act. The Committee submits 
an Annual Report to the Audit Committee of the Board of 
Directors on the complaints received and actions taken 
by it during the relevant financial year. During the financial 
year 2024-25, 2 (Two) complaints were lodged with the 
Internal Complaints Committee. Both the complaints 
were disposed off and as at the end of the financial year, 
no complaint remained pending. Besides, awareness 
programmes and workshops are conducted from time 
Havells India Limited
102
to time to educate the employees on the scope of the 
Policy and the grievance redressal mechanism under 
the Act including practical case studies from across the 
industries. Further, workshops were also held during 
the year for senior leadership to emphasize their role in 
fostering a safe and inclusive workplace culture.
29.	 Details pursuant to Section 197(12) of the 
Companies Act, 2013
	
As per Section 136(1) of the Companies Act 2013, the 
Integrated Annual Report is being sent to the Members 
and others entitled thereto, after excluding the disclosure 
on remuneration of employees as required u/s 197(12) 
of the Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014. Any Member interested in obtaining a 
copy of the said Statement may write to the Company 
Secretary at the registered office of the Company. 
	
Further, the Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration u/s 
197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014 forms part of this Report and is attached as 
ANNEXURE – 4.
30.	 Employees Stock Purchase Schemes
	
The Company has in place 4 (Four) employee benefit 
schemes, namely, Havells Long Term Incentive Plan 
2014 (LTIP 2014), Havells Stock Purchase Scheme 2015 
(ESPS 2015), Havells Stock Purchase Scheme 2016 
(ESPS 2016) and Havells Stock Purchase Scheme 2022 
(ESPS 2022).
	
All the existing and proposed benefit schemes are 
administered by Havells Employees Welfare Trust under 
the supervision of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee. Promoters, Independent Directors, Directors 
directly or indirectly holding 10% or above of the equity 
share capital of the Company, Employees not residing in 
India or Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) are not eligible for 
the grant of options/ issue of shares under any of the 
Schemes.
	
The Company has received a certificate dated 19th April, 
2025 from the Secretarial Auditors of the Company that the 
Schemes have been implemented in accordance with the 
applicable SEBI Guidelines and the Resolutions passed by 
the shareholders dated 9th June, 2014 (further amended 
on 8th July, 2022), 4th December, 2015, 13th July, 2016 and 
8th July, 2022 in respect of LTIP 2014, ESPS 2015, ESPS 
2016 and ESPS 2022 respectively. The Certificate will be 
placed at the Annual General Meeting for inspection by 
Members. There has been no material change in any of 
the subsisting Schemes. Disclosures pursuant to SEBI 
(Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, in 
respect of LTIP 2014, ESPS 2015, ESPS 2016 and ESPS 
2022 as at 31st March, 2025 are available on the website of 
the Company at https://havells.com/corporate/investors/
disclosure
31. 	Credit Ratings
	
CARE Ratings
	
CARE has yet again assigned a CARE AAA [Triple A] rating 
to the long-term facilities of your Company during the 
current Financial Year. This rating is applicable to facilities 
having a tenure of more than one year. Instruments with this 
rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. CARE 
has also reaffirmed the CARE A1+ [A One Plus] rating 
assigned to the short-term facilities of your Company. 
This rating is applicable to facilities having a tenure up to 
one year. Instruments with this rating are considered to 
have a very strong degree of safety regarding the timely 
payment of financial obligations. 
	
CARE has also reaffirmed the CARE A1+ [A One Plus] 
rating assigned to the Commercial Paper. 
	
The Corporate Governance practices of the Company 
are also rated by CareEdge Advisory Research and 
Training (CART) as CG2+. Grading is assigned on a 
six-point scale with CG 1 being the highest and CG 6 
being the lowest. CART’s CG grading is a measure of the 
overall performance of the corporate governance on a 
broad range of parameters such as Board Composition 
and Functioning, Ownership Structure, Organisation 
Structure and MIS, Shareholder Relationship, Disclosures 
and Transparency, Financial Prudence and Statutory & 
Regulatory Compliance.
32. 	Corporate Governance
	
The Company is committed to the highest level of 
corporate governance standards by applying the best 
management practices, compliance with the law in true 
letter and spirit and adherence to ethical standards for 
effective management and distribution of wealth and 
discharge of social responsibility for the sustainable 
development of all stakeholders.
	
Parameters of statutory compliances evidencing the 
standards expected from a listed entity have been duly 
observed and a Report on Corporate Governance as 
well as the Certificate from Statutory Auditors confirming 
compliance with the requirements of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) forms part of the 
Integrated Annual Report.
	
A Certificate of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer of the Company in terms of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, inter alia, confirming the correctness 
of the financial statements and cash flow statements, 
adequacy of the internal control measures and reporting 
of matters to the Audit Committee, is also annexed to the 
Corporate Governance Report.
33. 	Management Discussion and Analysis Report
	
Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the 
year under review, as stipulated under the Securities 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
103
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 is presented 
in a separate section, forming part of the Integrated 
Annual Report.
34. 	Environment, Health and Safety
	
Havells India Limited prioritizes Environment, Health and 
Safety (EHS) as crucial components of its overarching 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) initiatives. 
The company’s EHS strategies aim at creating long-
term value for its stakeholders by achieving the most 
environmentally sustainable and safest operations across 
all manufacturing units by optimizing natural resource 
usage and ensuring a secure and healthy workplace.
	
To address the broader ESG agenda, Havells has already 
established a board-level ESG Committee, led by an 
independent director to ensure that the ESG Agenda is 
conformed to. 
	
With a vigorous governance mechanism, company’s 
aim is continuous working towards our ESG Goals to 
lead change and make a positive difference to people 
and environment. In line with its commitment to EHS 
management, Havells has implemented fully integrated 
EHS management systems at all manufacturing sites, 
certified according to internationally recognized ISO 14001 
and ISO 45001 standards. The company places utmost 
importance on the health and safety of its workforce, 
as evident from its clearly outlined EHS Policy, which is 
regularly reinforced through specialized third-party safety 
audits. We have also implemented EnMS (ISO 50001), 
thus achieving improved operational efficiencies.
	
Safety remains a top priority for Havells and we are 
committed to providing a safe and productive environment 
for our workforce, we continue to maintain the best 
health and safety measures across all our manufacturing 
locations. 100% of our employees and workers at 
manufacturing sites are covered by our occupational 
health and safety management system which is audited by 
an external party on a periodic basis. We strive to upgrade 
our workforce skills levels through various learning & 
development programmes throughout the year. Further, 
at the time of induction, basic Safety trainings are given to 
all employees and workers at all our manufacturing sites. 
Company had also conducted 1500+ Training Programs 
at the manufacturing plants in aligning our environmental 
goals emphasising the collective responsibility towards 
a greener planet. The Company is committed to 
continuous improvements to ensure our ESG initiatives 
align with our long-term sustainability goals. Company 
has also introduced ‘Havells Safety Application’ that 
tracks the Permit Management, Incident Management, 
Audit and Hazard Identification and Risk Analysis 
(HIRA) Management and Observation management. To 
strengthen our safety initiatives, we have also formulated 
Hazard Identification and Risk Analysis HIRA framework 
to assess hazards and their associated risks. We have 
engaged the team members from manufacturing, EHS 
personnel and teams working on machine to work on 
identified activities to reduce High risk to Tolerable risk 
level and finally to Acceptable levels. This would enable 
the Company to prioritise employee well-being. 
	
Despite not being classified as an energy-intensive 
sector, Havells remains cognizant of its environmental 
impact and actively takes progressive steps to minimize 
it. Our dedication to environmental conservation drives 
our efforts to enhance the company’s ecological impact. 
Examples of initiatives include the installation of 15.6 MW 
solar capacity, continued certification of Zero Waste to 
Landfill and plantation of over 25+ lakh tree saplings over 
the last few years. We are actively pursuing opportunities 
to amplify the utilization of recycled water and decrease 
water usage across our facilities. We are optimising energy 
by various actions such as replacing existing motors 
with energy efficient motors, usage of variable speed 
drives, optimum use of machines & equipment, etc. Also, 
initiatives are taken up for saving energy through control 
of idle running of machines, improvisation in operating 
efficiency and controlled use of conveyors. 
35.	 Research and Development
	
Our continued strive towards strategic transformation 
of R&D, focused around the 3 pillars of consumer 
centricity, technology ownership and end-to-end product 
responsibility, has enabled us to deliver products and 
solutions of high performance, high quality, and Innovative 
features to consumers.
	
We have maintained a strong momentum towards the 
vision of becoming a World-class R&D organisation with 
sustained investment in R&D which equates to 1.19% 
of Net sales during Apr’ 2024 – Mar’ 2025 and in turn 
delivering 35.18% of total Net sales through NPD (New 
product development) in the same period.
	
The key highlights towards R&D infrastructure build-up 
includes expansion of Centre for Research & Innovation 
(CRI), Bengaluru to a new workspace and initiation of 
work for a new greenfield Noida R&D Hub set-up.
	
Our focus continues to be on long-term IP creation. During 
Apr’ 2024 – Mar’ 2025, we have added 77 new patent 
applications and 211 new design registrations increasing 
our cumulative tally of applications to 270 patents and 
1,424 design registrations, respectively. Out of the total 
applied patents, 104 are already granted. 
	
Time and again we have demonstrated the complete 
cycle of understanding consumer pains, crafting 
technology driven solutions and delivering consumer 
delight through seamless user experience in our products 
and solutions. In this regard, some of the highlights 
from the year include Luxuria range of Air conditioners, 
Novante range of Washing machines, Vitamin D wellness 
Vita Dlight range and Q-TRON MCCBs.
Havells India Limited
104
	
Looking into the future, Smart and Sustainable 
technologies will be a key area of focus in our next phase 
of strategy. During the year, 46.61% of our R&D spends 
were done on sustainable technologies and products 
development. We are working on Entrack energy auditor, a 
smart an intelligent energy management device for homes.
	
Our R&D efforts continues to be recognised by various 
acclaimed institutions. The key highlight of the year 
includes various prestigious design awards like CII Design 
excellence award, German design awards, IF award, 
European product design award, Red dot design award 
and recognition at CII Industrial IP awards 2024.
36.	 Transfer to Investor Education and Protection 
Fund
	
(A)	 Transfer of Unpaid Dividend
	
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 124(5) of 
the Companies Act, 2013, your Company has 
transferred ` 18,79,861 during the year to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund.
	
	
These amounts were lying unclaimed/ unpaid with 
the Company for a period of 7 (Seven) consecutive 
years after declaration of Final Dividend for Financial 
Year ended 2016-17.
	
(B)	 Transfer 
of 
Shares 
underlying 
Unpaid 
Dividend
	
	
During the Financial Year, the Share Allotment 
and Transfer Committee in its Meeting held on 
27th August, 2024, transmitted 1,57,247 Equity 
Shares on account of Unclaimed Dividend (Final) 
for FY 2016-17 into the DEMAT Account of the 
IEPF Authority held with NSDL (DPID/ Client ID 
IN300708/10656671) in terms of the provisions of 
Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and 
Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended from time to time.
	
	
These Equity Shares were the Shares of such 18 
Shareholders whose unclaimed/ unpaid dividend 
pertaining to Financial Year 2016-17 (Final) had 
been transferred into the IEPF and who had not 
encashed their dividends for 7 (Seven) consecutive 
years. In the aforesaid cases, the Shares lying in the 
Unclaimed Suspense A/c of the Company (1,32,100 
Equity Shares of ` 1 each), maintained in Demat 
Form, since the year 2017, were also included. 
	
	
Individual reminders were sent to concerned 
Shareholders advising them to encash their dividend 
and the complete list of such Shareholders whose 
Shares were due for transfer to the IEPF was 
also placed in the Unclaimed Dividend Section 
of the Investors Section on the website of the 
Company 
at 
https://havells.com/corporate/
investors/unclaimed-dividends.
	
	
With the transfer of above-said shares into IEPF, a 
total of 3,90,937 Shares of the Company (after taking 
into account the shares claimed back out of IEPF) 
were lying in the Demat A/c of the IEPF Authority, 
hereinabove mentioned, after considering the valid 
claims made therefrom. Concerned Shareholders 
may still claim the shares or apply for refund to the 
IEPF Authority in Web Form No. IEPF-5 available 
on www.iepf.gov.in. The voting rights on shares 
transferred to the IEPF Authority shall remain frozen 
until the rightful owner claims the shares.
	
	
The shares held in such DEMAT account shall not be 
transferred or dealt with in any manner whatsoever 
except for the purpose of transferring the shares 
back to the claimant as and when the shareholder 
approaches the Authority. All benefits except rights 
issue accruing on such shares e.g. bonus shares, 
split, consolidation, fraction shares etc., shall also 
be credited to such DEMAT account. Any further 
dividend received on such shares shall be credited 
to the IEPF Fund.
37. 	Transfer of Shares lying in Unclaimed Suspense 
Account into IEPF 
	
The Company had transferred 2,27,100 (Two Lakhs 
Twenty-Seven Thousand and One Hundred Only) Equity 
Shares into Unclaimed Share Suspense Account in 
terms of Regulation 39(4) read with Schedule VI to the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, in the year 2017. 
	
Out of those transferred, 95,000 Shares of ` 1/- each 
were claimed and transferred to the rightful owners, 
during the years from 2017 to 2024, on the approval of 
the Share Transfer and Allotment Committee. 
	
The dividend on shares lying in the Unclaimed Suspense 
A/c unpaid for a period of 7 (Seven) consecutive years 
beginning the dividend for financial year 2016-17 (Final), 
was due for transfer into IEPF as also the underlying 
shares. Accordingly, entire balance 1,32,100 Equity 
Shares of ` 1/- each lying in the Unclaimed Suspense A/c 
of the Company i.e., were transferred into the IEPF A/c 
during the financial year on 10th September 2024.
38.	 Listing of shares
	
The equity shares of the Company are listed on the 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE) and BSE 
Limited (BSE). The listing fee for the year 2025-26 
has already been paid to the credit of both the Stock 
Exchanges.
39.	 Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption 
and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
	
The information pertaining to conservation of energy, 
technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
105
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
and outgo as required under Section 134(3)(m) of 
the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is furnished in 
ANNEXURE – 5 and forms part of this Report.
40.	 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(BRSR)
	
As the significance of environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) issues grows within the corporate 
landscape, how companies report on these matters 
has evolved. With an increasing global awareness of 
business impacts on society and the environment, 
the practice of ESG reporting demands considerable 
attention. Throughout its history, Havells has maintained 
a commitment to transparently communicating its ESG 
performance in alignment with international standards to 
stakeholders.
	
We take pride in presenting our fourth BRSR for the 
fiscal year 2024-25. This report adheres to the format 
outlined in the amendment to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the 
SEBI Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements 
(LODR) Regulations, as specified in Gazette notification 
no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/22 dated May 05, 2021, 
and is integrated within our Annual Report. Aligned 
with the nine principles of the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct issued by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs, Government of India, the BRSR for the 
Financial Year 2024-25 has been developed. We have 
bolstered our existing robust reporting structure and 
mechanisms to ensure the accurate and reliable capture 
of data for BRSR disclosures. We are also aligned 
with the SEBI’s amendment on the BRSR Assurance 
requirements where the term assurance had been 
replaced with assessment in the LODR Regulations and 
SEBI circulars related to BRSR. For the Financial Year 
2024-25, for listed entities ‘Assurance’ requirements 
had been replaced with ‘Assessment’ of BRSR Core. 
Havells had voluntarily obtained ‘reasonable assurance’ 
for Financial Year 2024-25.
	
Havells firmly upholds the belief that sustainable and 
inclusive growth can only be achieved through a robust 
foundation of environmental and social responsibility, 
complemented by effective governance. Our report 
serves as evidence of our ongoing endeavours to adopt 
and enact a balanced approach to ESG criteria within 
our business operations, a commitment we transparently 
communicate to stakeholders. In addition to our annual 
voluntary sustainability disclosures, which adhere to 
globally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
standards and the Value Reporting Foundation’s Integrated 
Reporting framework based on six capitals, accessible on 
our website www.havells.com, we have also provided the 
necessary alignment between sustainability disclosures 
and the Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report 
as mandated by SEBI. This information is also readily 
available on our website.
	
We have also provided the requisite mapping of information 
and principles between the Sustainability Disclosures and 
the Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report as 
prescribed by SEBI. The same is also available on the 
website www.havells.com.
41.	 Other Disclosures
	
There were no transactions on the following matters 
during the year under review and hence no reporting or 
disclosure is required:
	
•	
Issue of equity shares with differential rights as to 
dividend, voting or otherwise.
	
•	
Issue of shares (including sweat equity shares) to 
employees of the Company under any scheme 
save and except Employees’ Stock Option Scheme 
referred to in this Report.
	
•	
There is no proceeding pending under the Insolvency 
and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
	
•	
There was no instance of one‑time settlement with 
any Bank or Financial Institution.
42.	 Acknowledgements
	
We thank our shareholders, our customers whose 
continuous support and feedback helps us gain a deeper 
insight into the evolving needs and market trends, fuelling 
innovation and product diversification at Havells and 
empowering us to stay ahead of the curve. Our heartfelt 
gratitude to our vendors for their sustained partnership 
that enables us to expand our global presence and 
capture a larger market share, fostering leadership 
dominance. We owe our achievements to our employees 
whose unflinching commitment inspires us to innovate 
and excel, and successfully navigate every challenge, 
leverage new opportunities and meet our strategic 
goals. We sincerely appreciate the regulatory authorities, 
bankers, financial institutions, rating agencies, stock 
exchanges and depositories, auditors, legal advisors, 
consultants and other stakeholders- champions of ethical 
governance. Your relentless dedication to foster a fair and 
ethical business environment and responsible business 
practices drives integrity, accountability and transparency 
across our business operations.
For and on behalf of
Board of Directors of Havells India Limited
Anil Rai Gupta
Noida, April 22, 2025
Chairman and Managing Director
Havells India Limited
106
Principle and Rationale
Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the provisions 
of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 require the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee of the Board of Directors of every listed entity, 
among other classes of companies, to 
-	
formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of a director 
and recommend to the Board a policy, relating to 
the remuneration for the directors, key managerial 
personnel and other employees. 
-	
identify persons who are qualified to become directors 
and who may be appointed in senior management in 
accordance with the criteria laid down, recommend to 
the Board their appointment and removal.
-	
carry out evaluation of every director’s performance.
-	
formulate the criteria for evaluation of Independent 
Directors and the Board.
	
Accordingly, 
in 
adherence 
to 
the 
abovesaid 
requirements and in line with the Company philosophy 
towards nurturing its human resources, the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors 
of Havells India Limited hereinbelow recommends to the 
Board of Directors for its adoption the Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy for the directors, key managerial 
personnel and other employees of the Company as set 
out below: 
Company Philosophy
Havells is an equal opportunities employer. The organization 
does not discriminate on grounds of age, gender, colour, 
race, ethnicity, language, caste, creed, economic or social 
status or disability. The global workforce spread across 
continents, which has over the years transformed Havells 
into a global organisation forms the backbone of the entity. 
Pay revisions and other benefits are designed in such a way 
to compensate good performance of the employees of the 
Company and motivate them to do better in future. Employee 
recognition schemes in the form of ESOPs/ ESPS have 
also been introduced as successful tools in acknowledging 
their contribution and making them partners in the wealth 
created by Havells. The endeavour of the organization is to 
acknowledge the contributions of its directors, key managerial 
personnel and other employees with best compensation and 
benefits that appropriately reward performance in line with 
the regulatory and industry best practices.
Guiding Principles
In the formulation of this Policy, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee has also endeavoured to ensure 
ANNEXURE – 1
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION POLICY OF DIRECTORS,  
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AND OTHER EMPLOYEE
the guiding principles as prescribed u/s 178(4) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the section on Responsibilities of Board under SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, summarized hereunder:
a)	
the level and composition of remuneration is reasonable 
and sufficient to attract, retain and motivate human 
resource including directors of the quality required to run 
the company successfully; 
b)	
relationship of remuneration to performance is clear and 
meets appropriate performance benchmarks; 
c)	
remuneration to directors, key managerial personnel 
and senior management reflecting short and long-term 
performance objectives appropriate to the working of the 
company and its goals; 
d)	
facilitating effective shareholder participation in key 
Corporate Governance decisions such as the nomination 
and election of board members; 
e)	
aligning key executive and board remuneration with the 
longer term interests of the company and its shareholders; 
f)	
ensuring a transparent board nomination process with the 
diversity of thought, experience, knowledge, perspective 
and gender in the Board.
Nomination of the Directors
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of 
Directors is dedicated to ensuring the continuance of a dynamic 
and forward-thinking Board and recommend to the Board 
qualified candidates for directorship. 
Before recommending a nominee’s candidature to the Board for 
being appointed as a Director, the following criteria set out may 
be applied as guidelines in considering potential nominees to the 
Board of Directors.
General Criteria 
The background and qualifications of the Directors considered 
as a group should provide a significant breadth of experience, 
knowledge and abilities to assist the Board in fulfilling its 
responsibilities. 
-	
Directors should be selected so that the Board of Directors 
should remain as a diverse body, with diversity reflecting 
gender, ethnic background, country of citizenship and 
professional experience. Because a mix of viewpoints 
and ideas enhances the Board’s ability to function 
effectively, the Committee shall consider the diversity of 
the existing Board when considering potential nominees, 
so that the Board maintains a body of directors from 
diverse professional and personal backgrounds. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
107
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
-	
Potential nominees shall not be discriminated against on 
the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or 
any other basis prohibited by law. 
-	
Any nominee should be free of any conflict of interest which 
would violate any applicable law or regulation or interfere 
with the performance of the responsibilities of a director. 
- Commitment of the nominee to understanding the 
Company and its industry, embracing the organization’s 
values to help shape its vision, mission and strategic 
direction including oversight of risk management and 
internal control. 
-	
Commitment of the nominee to spending the time 
necessary to function effectively as a Director, including 
attending and participating in meetings of the Board and 
its Committees. 
Specific Criteria 
-	
Demonstrated business acumen, experience and ability 
to use sound judgment and to contribute to the effective 
oversight of the business and financial affairs of a large, 
multifaceted, global organization. 
-	
The nominee reflects the right corporate tone and culture 
and excels at board-management relationships. 
-	
Experience 
in 
strategic 
planning 
and 
managing 
multidisciplinary responsibilities, the ability to navigate 
among diverse professional groups and points of 
view, a track record of communicating effectively in a 
global environment and high standards of integrity and 
professional conduct. 
-	
Nominees understand and endeavour to balance the 
interests of shareholders and/ or other stakeholders and 
put the interests of the company or organization above 
self-interest. He/ she has demonstrated a commitment to 
transparency and disclosure. 
-	
He/ she is committed to superior corporate performance, 
consistently striving to go beyond the legal and/or 
regulatory governance requirements to enhance, not just 
protect, shareholder value. 
-	
Nominee contributes to effective governance through 
superior, constructive relationships with the Executive 
Directorate and management.
Remuneration of the Directors 
The Company strives to provide fair compensation to directors, 
taking into consideration industry benchmarks, Company’s 
performance vis-à-vis the industry, responsibilities shouldered, 
performance/ track record, macroeconomic review on 
remuneration packages of heads of other organizations.
The remuneration payable to the directors of the company, shall 
at all times be determined, in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
Appointment and Remuneration of Managing Director 
and Whole-time Director
The terms and conditions of appointment and remuneration 
payable to a Managing Director and Whole-time Director(s) 
shall be recommended by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee to the Board for its approval which shall be subject 
to approval by shareholders at the next general meeting of 
the Company and by the Central Government in case such 
appointment is at variance to the conditions specified in 
Schedule V to the Companies Act, 2013. Approval of the 
Central Government is not necessary if the appointment is 
made in accordance with the conditions specified in Schedule 
V to the Act. 
In terms of the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
Company may appoint a person as its Managing Director or 
Whole-time Director for a term not exceeding 5 (Five) years at 
a time. 
The executive directors may be paid remuneration either by 
way of a monthly payment or at a specified percentage of the 
net profits of the Company or partly by one way and partly by 
the other. 
The break-up of the pay scale, performance bonus and 
quantum of perquisites including, employer’s contribution to 
P.F, pension scheme, medical expenses, club fees etc. shall be 
decided and approved by the Board on the recommendation 
of the Committee and shall be within the overall remuneration 
approved by the shareholders and Central Government, 
wherever required. 
While recommending the remuneration payable to a Managing/ 
Whole-time Director, the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee shall, inter alia, have regard to the following matters: 
•	
Financial and operating performance of the Company;
•	
Relationship between remuneration and performance;
•	
Industry/ sector trends for the remuneration paid to 
executive directorate.
Annual Increments to the Managing/ Whole-time Director(s) 
shall be within the slabs approved by the Shareholders. 
Increments shall be decided by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee at times it desires to do so but 
preferably on an annual basis. 
Insurance Premium as Part of Remuneration 
Where any insurance is taken by a company on behalf of 
its Managing Director, Whole-time Director, Manager, Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Company Secretary 
for indemnifying any of them against any liability in respect of 
any negligence, default, misfeasance, breach of duty or breach 
of trust for which they may be guilty in relation to the company, 
the premium paid on such insurance shall not be treated as 
part of the remuneration payable to any such personnel. 
However, if such person is proved to be guilty, the premium paid 
on such insurance shall be treated as part of the remuneration. 
Havells India Limited
108
Remuneration of Independent Directors
Independent Directors may receive remuneration by way of 
•	
Sitting fees for participation in the Board and other 
meetings;
•	
Reimbursement of expenses for participation in the Board 
and other meetings;
•	
Commission as approved by the Shareholders of the 
Company;
Independent Directors shall not be entitled to any stock 
options. 
Based on the recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, the Board may decide the sitting fee 
payable to independent directors. Provided that the amount of 
such fees shall not exceed the maximum permissible under the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
Remuneration to Directors in other Capacity
The remuneration payable to the directors including managing 
or whole-time director or manager shall be inclusive of the 
remuneration payable for the services rendered by him in any 
other capacity except the following: 
(a)	
the services rendered are of a professional nature; and 
(b)	
in the opinion of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, the director possesses the requisite 
qualification for the practice of the profession. 
Evaluation of the Directors
As members of the Board, the performance of the individual 
Directors as well as the performance of the entire Board and 
its Committees is required to be formally evaluated annually.
Section 178(2) of the Companies Act, 2013 also mandates 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee to carry out 
evaluation of every director’s performance. 
In developing the methodology to be used for evaluation on 
the basis of best standards and methods meeting international 
parameters, the Board / Committee may take the advice of an 
independent professional consultant. 
Nomination and Remuneration of the Key Managerial 
Personnel 
(Other 
than 
Managing/ 
Whole-Time 
Directors), Key Executives and senior management 
The executive management of a company is responsible for 
the day to day management of a company. The Companies 
Act, 2013 has used the term “key managerial personnel” to 
define the executive management. 
The KMPs are the point of first contact between the company 
and its stakeholders. While the Board of Directors are 
responsible for providing the oversight, it is the key managerial 
personnel and the senior management who are responsible for 
not just laying down the strategies as well as its implementation. 
The Companies Act, 2013 has for the first time recognized the 
concept of Key Managerial Personnel. As per section 2(51) 
“key managerial personnel”, in relation to a company, means— 
(i)	
the Chief Executive Officer or the Managing Director or 
the Manager; 
(ii)	
the Whole-time Director; 
(iii)	
the Chief Financial Officer; 
(iv)	 the Company Secretary; 
(v)	
such other officer, not more than one level below the 
directors who is in whole-time employment, designated 
as key managerial personnel by the Board and 
(v)	
such other officer as may be prescribed. 
Among the KMPs, the remuneration of the CEO or the Managing 
Director and the Whole-time Director(s), shall be governed by 
the Section on REMUNERATION OF THE DIRECTORS of this 
Policy dealing with “Remuneration of Managing Director and 
Whole-time Director”. 
Apart from the directors, the remuneration of 
•	
All the Other KMPs such as the company secretary or 
any other officer that may be prescribed under the statute 
from time to time; and 
•	
“Senior Management” of the Company which here means, 
the core management team comprising of such members 
of management as determined by the Company under 
Layer 1 of the System-Driven Disclosures in respect of 
Regulation 7(2)(b) of PIT Regulations, shall be determined 
by the Human Resources Department of the Company 
in consultation with the Managing Director and/ or the 
Whole-time Director Finance. 
The remuneration determined for all the above said senior 
personnel shall be in line with the Company’s philosophy to 
provide fair compensation to key - executive officers based 
on their performance and contribution to the Company and to 
provide incentives that attract and retain key executives, instill 
a long-term commitment to the Company and develop a pride 
and sense of Company ownership, all in a manner consistent 
with shareholder interests. 
The break-up of the pay scale and quantum of perquisites 
including, employer’s contribution to P.F, pension scheme, 
medical expenses, club fees etc. shall be decided by the 
Company’s HR department. 
Decisions on Annual Increments of the Senior Personnel 
shall be decided by the Human Resources Department in 
consultation with the Managing Director and/ or the Whole-
time Director Finance of the Company. 
Remuneration of other Employees
Apart from the Directors, KMPs and Senior Management, 
the remuneration for rest of the employees is determined on 
the basis of the role and position of the individual employee, 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
109
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
including professional experience, responsibility, job complexity 
and local market conditions. 
The Company considers it essential to incentivize the workforce 
to ensure adequate and reasonable compensation to the staff. 
The Human Resources Department shall ensure that the level 
of remuneration motivates and rewards high performers who 
perform according to set expectations for the individual in 
question. 
The various remuneration components, basic salary, allowances, 
perquisites etc. may be combined to ensure an appropriate and 
balanced remuneration package. 
The annual increments to the remuneration paid to the 
employees shall be determined based on the annual appraisal 
carried out by the HoDs of various departments. 
Decisions on Annual Increments shall be made on the basis of 
this annual appraisal. 
General 
This Policy shall apply to all future employment of Company’s 
Senior Management including Key Managerial Personnel and 
Board of Directors. 
Any or all the provisions of this Policy would be subject to the 
revision/ amendment in the Companies Act, 2013, related rules 
and regulations, guidelines and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 on the subject as 
may be notified from time to time. Any such amendment shall 
automatically have the effect of amending this Policy without 
the need of any approval by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and/ or the Board of Directors.
Havells India Limited
110
To
The Members,
Havells India Limited
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building,
K.G. Marg, Connaught Place, New Delhi - 110001
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED [CIN 
L31900DL1983PLC016304] (hereinafter called “the Company”). 
Secretarial Audit has been conducted in a manner that provided 
us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/ 
statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the company has, during 
the audit period covering the financial year commencing from 
April 1, 2024 and ended on March 31, 2025 (“Audit Period”) 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and 
also that the Company has proper Board-processes and 
compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner 
and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 according to the 
provisions of:
1)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
thereunder to the extent notified and came into force;
2)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made there under;
3)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder;
4)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA) & the 
Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of 
Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment 
and External Commercial Borrowings;
5)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
	
a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
	
b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
ANNEXURE – 2
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and  
Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
	
c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018;
	
d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 
and The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993, regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with client.
	
g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
	
h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018
	
i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009
6)	
The Employees State Insurance Act, 1948
7)	
Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions 
Act, 1952
8)	
Employers Liability Act, 1938
9)	
Environment Protection Act, 1986 and other environmental 
laws
10)	 Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981
11)	 Factories Act, 1948
12)	 Industrial Dispute Act, 1947
13)	 Payment of Wages Act, 1936 and other applicable labour 
laws
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following:
i.	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India.
ii.	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with 
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
read with the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
	
During the audit Period under review, the Company 
has complied with the provisions of the Acts, Laws and 
Regulations and guidelines, to the extent applicable, as 
mentioned above.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
111
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted 
with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors. There was no change in 
the composition of Board of Directors during the period under 
review. The changes in composition of the Audit Committee 
were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings. Agenda and detailed notes on agenda were 
sent at least seven days in advance and a system exists for 
seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications 
on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
I further report that there are adequate systems and processes 
in the Company commensurate with the size and operations 
of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
Majority decisions were carried out with unanimous consent 
and therefore no dissenting views were captured and recorded 
as part of the minutes
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance 
with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines as 
stated above.
We further report that during the period under review:
•	
The Company has allotted 53,883 Equity Shares for 
Financial Year 2023-24 to Havells Employees Welfare 
Trust under the Havells Employees Long Term Incentive 
Plan 2014.
•	
The Company has allotted 1,50,000 Equity Shares for 
Financial Year 2023-24 to the Havells Employees Welfare 
Trust under the Havells Employees Stock Purchase 
Scheme 2015.
•	
The Company has allotted 32,157 Equity Shares for 
Financial Year 2023-24 to eligible Employees under the 
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Scheme 2016.
•	
The Company has allotted 22,662 Equity Shares for 
Financial Year 2023-24 to eligible Employees under the 
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Scheme 2022.
For Balika Sharma & Associates
Company Secretaries
Place: Delhi
Date: 19th April, 2025
Balika Sharma
Proprietor
FCS No: 4816
C P No: 3222
UDIN: F004816G000156616
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as Annexure 1 and forms an integral part of this report.
Annexure 1
To
The Members,
Havells India Limited
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building,
K.G. Marg, Connaught Place, New Delhi 110001
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
1.	
Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial Records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations & 
happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company not the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Balika Sharma & Associates
Company Secretaries
Place: Delhi
Date: 19th April, 2025
Balika Sharma
Proprietor
FCS No: 4816
C P No: 3222
UDIN: F004816G000156616
Havells India Limited
112
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company
	
In adherence to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014, the Board of Directors upon the 
recommendation of CSR Committee, in its meeting 
held on 23rd April, 2014, approved a CSR Policy of the 
Company. The CSR Policy was last reviewed by the 
Board on 20th October, 2021. 
	
In accordance with the primary CSR philosophy of the 
group and the specified activities under Schedule VII 
to the Companies Act, 2013, the CSR activities of the 
Company cover certain thrust areas such as mid-day 
meals, education, sanitation facilities, preservation of 
heritage monuments, afforestation etc.
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the Company 
is available on the website of the Company at https://
havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/Code-and-policies/
CSR_Policy.pdf in the ‘Investor Relations Section’ under 
‘Codes & Policies’.
2.	
Composition of CSR & ESG Committee
	
As at 31st March, 2025, the Corporate Social 
Responsibility & Environmental, Social and Governance 
Committee comprised of 4 (Four) Members of the Board, 
2 (Two) of which were Independent Directors, 1 (One) 
Non-Executive and 1 (One) was Executive. The Chairman 
of the Committee is an Independent Director.
Sr. 
No.
Name and Designation/ 
Nature of Directorship
Total No. of CSR & ESG 
Committee Meetings held 
during the year – 2 
Attendance in CSR & ESG 
Committee Meetings held on
29-Apr-24
16-Oct-24
1.
Shri Vivek Mehra
Independent Director, 
Chairman


2.
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani 
Independent Director, 
Member


3.
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta,
Non-Executive 
Director, Member


4.
Shri Rajesh Kumar 
Gupta,
Executive Director, 
Member


ANNEXURE – 3
ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR PURSUANT TO RULE 8 OF COMPANIES
(CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY) RULES, 2014
The CSR programmes and pursuits of the Company are illustrated in the Social & Relationship Capital section of the Integrated 
Report on page 74-80
3.	
Provide the web-link(s) where Composition of CSR 
Committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by 
the Board are disclosed on the website of the Company
	
CSR & ESG Committee – https://www.havells.com/en/
aboutus/committees.html
	
CSR Policy – https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/
Code-and-policies/CSR_Policy.pdf
	
CSR 
Programmes 
– 
https://www.havells.com/en/
corporate-social-responsibility.html
4.	
Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) 
of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in 
pursuance of sub-rule (3) of Rule 8, if applicable.
	
An executive summary of the Impact Assessment Report 
is attached as an annexure to this Report on CSR and the 
complete Impact Assessment Report can be accessed at
	
https://havells.com/corporate/csr/csr-overview
5.
(a) Average net profit of the Company as 
per sub-section (5) of Section 135
: ` 1,613.92 Cr
(b) Two percent of average net profit of 
the company as per sub-section (5) 
of Section 135
:
` 32.28 Cr
(c) Surplus arising out of the CSR 
projects or programmes or activities 
of the previous financial years.
:
NIL
(d) Amount required to be set off for the 
financial year, if any
:
` 0.65 Cr
(e) Total CSR obligation for the financial 
year [(b)+(c)-(d)]
:
` 31.63 Cr
6.
(a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both 
Ongoing Project and other than 
Ongoing Project)
:
` 32.95 Cr
(b) Amount 
spent 
in 
Administrative 
Overheads
:
NIL
(c) Amount 
spent 
on 
Impact 
Assessment, if applicable
:
` 0.00 Cr
(d) Total amount spent for the Financial 
Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]
:
` 32.95 Cr
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
113
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
	
(e)	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Total Amount
Spent for the
Financial Year
(` In Cr.)
Amount Unspent (` In Cr)
Total Amount transferred to
Unspent CSR Account as per sub-
section (6) of Section 135
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to sub-
section (5) of Section 135
Amount
Date of Transfer 
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of 
Transfer
32.95 crores
NIL
NA
NA
NIL
NA
	
(f)	
Excess amount for set off, if any
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Amount (` in Cr)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135 
32.28 
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year (including amount required to be set off for 
the financial year as referred in Pt No 5(d) above) 
33.60 
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
1.32
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous 
Financial Years, if any
Nil
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
1.32
7.	
Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years: 
Sr. 
No.
Preceding
Financial
Year(s)
Amount
transferred to
Unspent CSR
Account 
under sub-
section (6) of 
Section 135
(` In Cr)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent 
CSR 
account 
under sub-
section(6) of 
Section 135 
(` In Cr)
Amount 
Spent 
in the 
Financial 
Year 
(` In Cr)
Amount transferred to a 
Fund as specified under
Schedule VII as per
second proviso to  
sub-section
(5) of Section 135, if any
Amount
remaining to 
be spent in
succeeding
Financial Years
(` In Cr)
Deficiency, 
if Any
Amount
(` In Cr)
Date of
Transfer
1
2022-23
 8 Cr
4 Cr
4 Cr
NIL
2
2023-24
-
 4 Cr
4 Cr
NIL
NIL
3
2024-25
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
8.	
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year: 
	
Yes
	
If Yes, enter the No. (amount) of Capital assets created/ acquired: ` 17.60 Cr
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in 
the Financial Year:
Sr. 
No.
Short particulars  
of the property or 
asset(s) (including 
complete address and 
location of the property)
Pincode 
of the 
property  
or asset(s)
Date of 
Creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` In Cr.)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of  
the registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Address of 
beneficiary 
1
2
3
4
5
6
1
Kitchen utensils and 
other appliances;  
QRG Foundation, F-36 
to 41, Agro Food Park, 
M.I.A., Alwar-301030
301030
30-05-24
01-06-24
02-02-25
0.14 CSR00001995
QRG 
Foundation
QRG Foundation, 
F-36 to 41, Agro 
Food Park, M.I.A., 
Alwar-301030
Havells India Limited
114
Sr. 
No.
Short particulars  
of the property or 
asset(s) (including 
complete address and 
location of the property)
Pincode 
of the 
property  
or asset(s)
Date of 
Creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` In Cr.)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of  
the registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Address of 
beneficiary 
1
2
3
4
5
6
2
Development of 
Infrastructure  
Plot No. 1A (North 
Campus) &  
Plot no 2, Rajiv Gandhi 
Education City, Rai, 
Sonipat, Haryana 
 131029
Work in 
progress
17.46 CSR00000712 International 
Foundation 
for Research 
and 
Education
222, 2nd Floor, 
Okhla Industrial 
Estate, Phase-III, 
New Delhi-110020
9.	
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per sub-section (5) of 
Section 13:
	
NA
Anil Rai Gupta
Vivek Mehra
Chairman and Managing Director
Chairman CSR & ESG Committee
Noida, April 21, 2025
Encl: Executive Summary on Impact Assessment Report
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
115
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Introduction
This summary report encapsulates the findings of the Impact 
Assessment conducted for Havells India Limited Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) contribution to Chanakya University 
for FY 2023-24. 
The CSR initiative, under Havells “STEPS – Chhote Kadam 
Badi Soch,” aims to support transformative projects aligned 
with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Havells 
granted ` 5 crores to Chanakya University to establish a state-
of-the-art data centre, procure IT equipment and implement 
advanced systems. Guru & Jana conducted the independent 
evaluation of the project’s impact. 
Please refer to our main report with title Impact Assessment 
Report on Havells India Limited CSR Contribution 
to Chanakya University FY 2023-24 for comprehensive 
understanding of the project’s scope and findings, methodology, 
disclaimer and limitation of the study & etc. 
Project Overview
Recipient: Chanakya University, established in 2022, is 
committed to academic excellence and holistic development.
Purpose: The grant supported the establishment of the 
Havells Data Centre, procurement of laptops and desktops, 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT 
on the Havells India Limited CSR Contribution to 
CHANAKYA UNIVERSITY
and implementation of the IBMS and biometric attendance 
system.
Grant Details:
•	
Amount: ` 5 crores
•	
Beneficiaries: 1438 students, faculty and management, 
with scope for future growth to 25,000 beneficiaries.
•	
Location: Haraluru & Polanahalli Villages, Bangalore 
Rural, Karnataka
Scope and Methodology
1.	
Scope of the Study
	
Havells India Limited has been implementing various CSR 
projects for holistic development of children with 8 strong 
pillars of Health & Nutrition, Education, Skill Development, 
Sanitation, 
Healthcare, 
Environment, 
Heritage 
Conservation and other Humanitarian Causes. It has 
engaged Guru & Jana to provide support and assistance 
for an independent review and Impact assessment of 
CSR contribution made to Chanakya University.
2.	
Methodology
	
In order to assess the impact of its CSR projects, a mixed-
method approach was deployed which involved either one 
of or both the quantitative and qualitative research tools 
(as relevant) for primary data collection. Using these tools, 
team conducted the interactions (virtual and on-field) with 
the project beneficiaries and other relevant stakeholders. 
Post data collection and analysis, the key insights and 
findings were collated in the form of a consolidated report 
for Management’s consideration. 
	
This study is guided by the OECD-DAC Framework 
which is used to provide overall feedback on the efficacy 
of implementation as well, as its efficiency in terms of 
achievement of the desired project outputs with reference 
to inputs.
Overall Approach of the methodology
As a part of the study, a brief overview of findings for three verticals of implementation is provided below:
Sr. 
No.
Overview of 
the Grant 
Usage
Description
Total Beneficiaries
Total 
spend 
(` in Cr)
Sample for 
study
1
Data Centre- 
IT Networking
University has utilised the maximum amount of grant in 
development of Active IT Networking i.e. Havells  
Data centre to provide the best connectivity to  
the beneficiaries
1438
- Students: 1,284
- Faculty: 144
- Management: 10
4.08 290
- Students: 260
- Faculty: 26
- Management: 4
2
Purchase of 
27 Laptops 
and 70 
Desktops
University has used a part of the grant for 27 Laptops which 
were distributed to the faculty for use in their delivery of lecture 
and other administrative work and 70 desktops were installed 
in labs to be used by students as a part of their curriculum 
1311
- Students: 1,284
- Faculty: 27
0.54 276
- Students: 260
- Faculty: 16
3
IBMS & 
Attendance 
Management
University has invested a part of grant to construction and 
implementation of BMS and biometric face recogniser for 
attendance and safety of the students 
154
- Faculty: 144
- Management: 10
0.38 30
- Faculty: 26
- Management: 4
Havells India Limited
116
Key Findings
1.	
Havells Data Centre – IT Networking System
	
Summary of impact created:
	
•	
Fulfilling the academic needs of students: 
	
	
93% of students acknowledged that the IT 
networking systems effectively supported their 
academic needs.
	
•	
Improved 
academic 
performance 
of 
the 
students:
	
	
91% of students reported that the IT networking 
systems have significantly enhanced their academic 
performance.
	
•	
Supporting the non-academic needs of students:
	
	
Students awarded an average rating of 4.04 stars 
when asked if the IT networking systems support 
their non-academic needs.
 
•	
Better assistance in learning and research work 
of students: 
	
	
92% of students agreed that the IT networking 
systems are well-suited to support their learning and 
research activities.
 
•	
Better assistance in academic and administrative 
needs of faculty:
	
	
Faculty members 88% agreed that the IT networking 
systems effectively meet their teaching and 
administrative needs.
 
•	
Improved faculty productivity:
	
	
85% agreed that the IT networking systems have 
positively impacted both student performance and 
faculty productivity.
 
•	
Enhanced delivery of Quality education by 
faculty:
	
	
96% agreed that the IT networking systems have 
positively enhanced delivery of quality education.
 
•	
Supporting the University’s overall strategic 
goals:
	
	
Management has awarded 5 stars when asked how 
it is aligned to overall strategic goals of university.
 
•	
Fulfilling the administrative needs of the 
management:
	
	
Management awarded an average rating of 4.75 
stars when asked if IT networking systems fulfil their 
administrative needs.
OECD-DAC Evaluation:
Parameter
Assessment from Study
Relevance 
Students rated reliable internet connectivity highly 4.35 stars, emphasizing its critical role in their studies
For faculty, the university's network infrastructure plays a vital role in meeting teaching and research 
demands, with 4.27 stars indicating its strong relevance. 
Management, with a rating of 5 stars, acknowledges that IT improvements align with strategic goals
Coherence
Students rated the IT networking system’s suitability for both academic and non-academic activities at 4.04 
stars, suggesting it meets most needs but could benefit from further improvement. 
Faculty members gave a rating of 4.23 stars, indicating that the infrastructure integrates with university’s 
academic and administrative objective. 
Management, with a higher rating of 4.67 stars, views IT initiatives as well-integrated with the university’s 
goals for academic excellence and administrative efficiency
Effectiveness 
Students rated the effectiveness of Wi-Fi and LAN services for academic needs at 3.98 stars, suggesting 
satisfaction with room for improvement. 
Faculty and management both rated the effectiveness of IT infrastructure in supporting academic and 
administrative functions at 4.19 stars, indicating strong alignment with their needs. 
Overall, the infrastructure is seen as effective, with potential for further enhancements.
(Source: Picture taken by Chanakya University)
(Source: Picture taken by Guru & Jana Team)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
117
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Parameter
Assessment from Study
Efficiency
Students rated the efficiency of reliable internet connection at 92%, indicating a generally good experience 
with some areas for improvement. 
 Management rated the efficiency of IT infrastructure deployment at 4.75 stars, reflecting a high level of 
satisfaction with the overall planning and execution
Impact
Students rated its impact on their educational experience at 4.08 stars, indicating a significant positive 
influence on their learning. 
85% of faculty saw a noticeable impact reflecting the infrastructure’s positive effect on teaching & learning.
The management rates the university's Wi-Fi and LAN connectivity at 4.5 stars, highlighting its positive 
impact on academic and administrative operations.
Sustainability
Students rated their confidence at 4.17 stars, indicating fairly that the present infrastructure will continue to 
support the growing demands over time. 
Faculty rated a 4.19 stars, suggesting a belief that the infrastructure will meet future demands and 
technological advancements. 
Management, with a slightly lower rating of 4.75 stars, expresses more caution regarding the infrastructure's 
ability to keep pace with future needs.
2.	
Laptops and Desktops
	
Summary of the impact created:
•	
Fulfilling the academic needs: 
	
91% of students say that the deployment of desktops 
has effectively fulfil their academic needs. This high 
level of satisfaction highlights the institution’s success in 
providing the necessary resources and support to meet 
the diverse academic requirements.
•	
Easy access to learning resources and complete 
assignments on time:
	
89% of students feel they have easy access to learning 
resources and are able to complete assignments on time. 
•	
Improved support to research and learning: 
	
91% of students feel that there has been improved 
support for research and learning through desktops and 
has impacted positively in achieving their research and 
learning goals 
•	
Aid to effective teaching
	
The allocation of laptops to faculty has had a profound 
impact on enhancing teaching effectiveness, as evidenced 
by the 88% positive response from faculty members. The 
provision of laptops has empowered faculty to deliver 
high-quality, engaging lectures.
•	
Improved productivity of faculty 
	
Faculty rated 3.94 Stars indicating that the laptops added 
to their overall productivity and effectiveness.
•	
Aid to ease of preparing course material and any 
research papers
	
These devices have provided faculty with easy access to 
a wide range of academic resources, research tools and 
software, enabling them to create comprehensive and 
engaging course content efficiently. It has greatly facilitated 
the preparation of course materials and research papers, 
with 88% of faculty members affirming its positive impact.
(Source: Picture taken by Guru & Jana Team)
Havells India Limited
118
OECD-DAC Evaluation:
Parameter
Assessment from Study
Relevance 
Students rated desktops as highly relevant to completing academic tasks, such as assignments and 
research, with an average score of 4.03 stars.
88% of faculty members expressed even greater satisfaction with laptops as these devices effectively 
support their academic and administrative responsibilities, including teaching grading and research. 
Coherence
Faculty provided a higher rating of 4 stars for laptops, reflecting their alignment with the university’s strategic 
goals for enhancing teaching and faculty resources. 
Effectiveness 
Students rated desktops at 3.95 stars for their support in academic activities such as research and online 
classes, demonstrating their utility in facilitating learning. 
88% of the faculty reported that the laptops effectively improved their ability to teach, prepare material or 
conduct research. 
Efficiency
Students rated the overall efficiency of desktop deployment at 4.03 stars, considering factors such as 
availability, setup and performance, indicating satisfactory operational support. 
Faculty assigned a rating of 3.94 stars to the efficiency of laptops in facilitating their daily academic and 
administrative tasks, showcasing their reliability and performance. 
Impact
Students rated the impact of desktops on their overall academic experience at 3.99 stars. 
Faculty provided a higher rating of 3.94 stars, highlighting the role of laptops in boosting their productivity 
and effectiveness in teaching and research. 
Sustainability
Students rated the sustainability of desktops at 4, reflecting confidence in their utility throughout their 
academic tenure. 
Faculty provided a higher rating of 4.13 stars, indicating strong belief in the long-term viability of laptops for 
teaching and administrative tasks. 
 
•	
Improved the accuracy of attendance tracking:
	
	
Approximately 96% of Faculty are impressed by the 
biometric system’s precision in accurately recording 
attendance, recognizing its value in streamlining 
attendance management and enhancing overall 
campus efficiency.
 
•	
Safer and more accountable culture at university:
	
	
100% of management have reported that it creates 
a safer environment at the university 
3.	
IBMS and Biometric Attendance System
(Source: Picture taken by Guru & Jana Team)
	
Summary of the impact created:
 
•	
Monitoring:
	
	
The biometric attendance system seamlessly 
integrates with existing security and monitoring 
measures on campus. Its implementation enhanced 
the overall monitoring framework, contributing to 
a more secure campus environment, Impressively 
Management has voted 5 Star. 
(Source: Picture taken by Guru & Jana Team)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
119
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
OECD-DAC Evaluation:
Parameter
Assessment from Study
Relevance 
96% of faculty voted positive, reflecting its strong alignment with their security needs. 
Management feels that the systems are relevant and have rated it at 4.75 stars.
Coherence
Management rated the cohesive functioning of the IBMS and biometric systems with administrative 
processes at 5 stars.
Effectiveness 
100% of management voted it to be effective, emphasizing that the systems have successfully achieved 
their intended purposes of enhancing security and streamlining attendance tracking.
Efficiency
Faculty rated the improvement in attendance accuracy due to the biometric system at 4.35 stars, reflecting 
its reliability and precision. 
The implementation of the IBMS and biometric attendance systems has greatly improved administrative 
efficiency in attendance and security management, with management rating the systems a perfect score 
of 4.75 stars.
Impact
Management rated the implementation of these systems at 4.75 stars, reflecting a strong belief in their 
positive impact on overall university operations.
Sustainability
77% of Faculty feel it is sustainable reflecting optimism about the system's capacity to accommodate future 
educational and administrative changes. 
Management rated the system's scalability for future university growth at 4.25 stars, emphasizing its 
alignment with the university's long-term expansion plans
Conclusion
Havells India Limited CSR initiative at Chanakya University has achieved significant milestones in enhancing digital infrastructure, 
operational efficiency and security. The project aligns with Havells vision of fostering holistic development and inclusive growth 
through impactful CSR contributions. 
For a comprehensive understanding of the project’s scope and findings, refer to the main report titled Impact Assessment Report on Havells India 
Limited CSR Contribution to Chanakya University FY 2023-24. This summary report and its findings are subject to the disclaimer outlined in the 
main report.
Havells India Limited
120
(A)	
Details pursuant to the provisions of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
Relevant 
clause u/r 5(1)
Prescribed Requirement 
Particulars
(i)
Ratio of the remuneration (excluding variables 
such as commission etc.) of each director to the 
median remuneration of the employees of the 
company for the financial year 
-	
Ratio of the remuneration of Shri Anil Rai Gupta, 
Chairman and Managing Director to the median 
remuneration of the employees – 78:1 
-	
Ratio of the remuneration of Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, 
Whole-time Director to the median remuneration of the 
employees – 45:1 
-	
Ratio of the remuneration of Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, 
Whole-time Director & Group CFO – 69:1
-	
Ratio of the remuneration of Shri Siddhartha Pandit, 
Whole-time Director – 11:1
(ii)
Percentage increase in remuneration (excluding 
variables such as commission etc.) of each 
director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive 
Officer, Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in 
the financial year 
-	
Shri Anil Rai Gupta, CMD – 9.38% 
-	
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, WTD – 56.86%
-	
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, WTD (CFO) – 9.68%
-	
Shri Siddhartha Pandit, WTD – 9.58%
-	
Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, CS – 8.52% 
(iii)
Percentage increase in the median remuneration 
of employees in the financial year 
5.2%
(iv)
Number of permanent employees on the rolls of 
company 
8,163 Employees
(v)
Average percentile increase already made 
in the salaries of employees other than the 
managerial personnel in the last financial year 
and its comparison with the percentile increase 
in the managerial remuneration and justification 
thereof and point out if there are any exceptional 
circumstances for increase in the managerial 
remuneration 
-	
Average increase in remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel – 16.91% 
-	
Average increase in remuneration of employees other 
than the Managerial Personnel – 10.13%
The top-level compensation is linked to Profit Before Tax.
(vi)
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the 
remuneration policy of the company
The remuneration is as per the Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy for the Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and Other Employees of the Company, 
formulated pursuant to the provisions of section 178 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
ANNEXURE – 4
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
121
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
(A)	 Conservation of Energy
	
(i)	
Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy 
	
	
At Havells, energy conservation is an integral part 
of our culture. We continually seek opportunities 
to optimize operations, maximize asset utilization 
and adopt efficient ways of managing operations. 
By doing so, we minimize energy requirements for 
running the plant operations at each site. Towards 
ensuring a sustainable future, we have implemented 
one of the best energy management systems (ISO 
50001 EnMS), which enables us to optimize energy 
efficiency, reduce consumption and minimize our 
environment footprint. 
Description of the project
Energy saved per  
year (kWh)
Capital Expenditure incurred 
in purchase of energy 
conservation equipment (`)
Energy Saved due to optimization of motors and pumps
0.11 Lakhs kWh
0.82 Lakhs
Process Optimization and Elimination of Ideal running of 
machines and equipment
18.14 Lakhs kWh
14.05 Lakhs
Savings through Installation of New machines, equiptment, 
technology
24.85 Lakhs kWh
1,211.97 Lakhs
Total
43.10 Lakhs kWh
1,226.84 Lakhs
ANNEXURE – 5
Disclosure pursuant to Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014
	
	
During 2024-25, Havells undertook 63 projects 
towards conservation of energy. We optimise energy 
through various actions, such as replacing existing 
motors with more energy efficient ones, using 
variable speed drives and optimal use of machines 
& equipment, among others. We focus on energy 
savings by minimising idle machine time, enhancing 
operational efficiency and managing conveyor 
usage. Our efforts led to a reduction of 3,547 tons of 
CO2 emissions, enabling us to effectively contribute 
to combatting climate change. Details for the 
projects is given below:
	
(ii)	 Steps taken by the Company for utilising 
alternate sources of energy
	
	
Using solar energy is an ongoing effort, in our 
mission to conserve natural resources and minimize 
our impact on the planet. At Havells, during the 
year, we made an investment of ` 16.58 Cr towards 
the addition of solar power. At present, our solar 
power generation capacity stands at 15.6 MW, 
which translates into a saving of 11.9% of our total 
electricity consumption. Use of solar energy enabled 
us to offset 10,992 tons of CO2 emissions. Going 
forward, we have identified year-wise additions of 
projects for solar generation systems.
	
(iii)	 Capital investment on energy conservation 
equipment
	
	
During the financial year, the Company has invested 
a total of ` 28.85 Cr towards alternate sources 
of energy (solar), optimization ideas and new 
technology. We continue to focus on identifying 
equipment and machinery where new technologies 
can help in optimizing our energy usage. 
(B)	 TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION
	
(i)	
Efforts made towards technology absorption
	
	
Havells R&D Strategy
	
	
Our R&D strategy is focused around 3 strategic 
pillars of Consumer centric Innovations, Ownership 
of critical technologies and End-to-end Product 
responsibility. We have built capabilities in these 
areas with our Customer eXperience and Design 
Studio forming the basis of Consumer and 
ethnographic understanding; Bangalore Innovation 
centre housing the futuristic technologies for Smart 
and connected solutions; and Noida R&D Center 
taking the responsibility of quality and reliability 
of our products through advanced and robust 
development processes. 
	
	
The sustained investment behind R&D infrastructure, 
processes and people competency over the years 
has enabled significant in-house competence 
development in critical technologies which translated 
into development of novel and experiential product 
and solutions addressing consumer pains and 
preferences while keeping the user experience 
seamless. 
	
	
These leaps are well visible through demonstrated 
performance that can be summarized into 3 key 
areas of Technological differentiation, Sustainability 
& self-reliance and Novelty & customization.
Havells India Limited
122
	
Technological Differentiation
	
Next-Gen MCCB: QTRON
	
QTRON MCCB is a testament to our engineering 
excellence. Designed and manufactured with cutting-
edge technology, this MCCB is built to deliver unmatched 
safety, reliability, and efficiency for industries across 
the globe. With a focus on innovation, it offers superior 
protection against electrical faults, ensuring high 
mechanical and electrical endurance. Qtron MCCB, 
available for 16A to 630A applications, is crafted to meet 
global gold standards. 
	
Vita Dlight Range
	
A breakthrough in lighting technology that seamlessly 
combines general illumination with UVB (Ultra Violet – B 
wavelength) exposure. Designed to support a healthier 
lifestyle, these luminaires provide both functional lighting 
and vitamin D synthesis benefits, making them a must-
have for modern living. A perfect blend of ambient lighting 
and controlled UVB exposure, Vita Dlight is essentially 
designed for offices, homes and indoor spaces where 
natural sunlight is limited.
	
IE4 Motors
	
Introduced this year, as the highest efficiency class 
currently available, IE4 motors offers significant energy 
savings. They are designed for applications where motors 
run almost continuously, making them ideal for situations 
with high energy costs that necessitate optimal efficiency.
	
Sustainability and Self reliance
	
EnTrack Smart Energy management device
	
EnTrack serves as a personal home assistant, overseeing energy consumption and conducting analyses accordingly. Utilizing 
non-intrusive load monitoring (NILM) technology, EnTrack can discern the energy usage of individual appliances within the 
household. It captures electrical signatures from the main power entry point, providing real-time power measurement, 
displayed through a mobile application for user access. EnTrack provides comprehensive energy consumption patterns on a 
daily, monthly and yearly basis for the household.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
123
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
	
LLOYD Novante Fully auto Top load washing machine
	
First fully auto top load washing machine manufactured 
in-house. The washing machine comes with a 5D Ultra 
Wash Technology with multi-dimensional water flow that 
Havells claims can effectively tackle stubborn stains. 
Equipped with smart connectivity that a user can use to 
adjust the wash cycles and preferences. Other features 
also include 12 i-Sense Technology with in-built sensors 
which are activated during entire wash cycle ensuring 
best washing performance, safety, and durability.
	
Novelty and customization
	
STUNNAIR Designer AC Range
	
Inspired by Elegance, Engineered for Performance, 
movable Panel Air Conditioner, an innovation that goes 
beyond traditional cooling. Unlike conventional air 
conditioners, this moving panel adjusts dynamically to 
the environment, ensuring even cooling while preventing 
unnecessary energy consumption. The design is not just 
about aesthetics—it actively contributes to better airflow 
and temperature regulation.
	
Convertible Cooler
	
Addressing a long-standing consumer problem of storing Air coolers when not in use, we introduced 2-in-1 Convertible 
Cooler with Dual Functionality. When not in use, it can be easily stored and used as side table in packed condition.
	
EPIC BLDC Fans range
	
Continuing our journey of differentiation in BLDC fans range, this year we introduced EPIC range with sleek and minimalistic 
designs, LED display for fan speed and modes indication. All three variants have direction-sensing RF remotes with breeze 
sleep, MOP, boost and reverse rotation features.
Havells India Limited
124
(ii)	 Benefits derived from these R&D efforts 
	
With our R&D endeavour of democratizing technology 
through customer-centric innovations, during Apr’ 2024 
– Mar’ 2025 we have completed 466 NPD (New product 
development) projects.
	
Efforts from NPD has generated 7,651 Cr. of Net sales 
during FY 2024–25, amounting to 35.18% of total 
company revenue during the same period.
	
Our focus continues to be on long-term IP creation. During 
Apr’ 2024 – Mar’ 2025, we have added 77 new patent 
applications and 211 new design registrations increasing 
our cumulative tally of applications to 270 patents and 
1,424 design registrations respectively. Out of the total 
applied patents, 104 are already granted. 
	
Throughout the year we have received awards and 
recognitions from acclaimed local and global bodies 
in the fields of design, technology and Innovation. The 
following is the list of the major awards and grants:
	
•	
National accreditation board of Testing & Calibration 
Laboratories (NABL) accreditation to Havells Lighting 
Lab Neemrana
	
•	
CII Design excellence award 2024
	
•	
German product design award 2024
	
•	
IF Design award 2024
	
•	
Red Dot design award 2024
	
•	
Recognition at CII Industrial IP awards 2024
(iii)	 Technology import and absorption (imported 
during the last three years reckoned from the 
beginning of the financial year)
	
We have more than 30 active domestic and international 
technology 
collaborations 
with 
various 
academia, 
technology companies, start-ups etc. for further 
accelerating our agenda of technology ownership.
	
Following is a list of Key technology absorption initiatives during last 3 years:
Sr. 
No.
Technology
Country of 
Import
Year of 
Import
Absorption 
Status
Description and Usage
1.
Anechoic 
research and 
Engineering
USA and 
Belgium
2023
Fully 
absorbed
For NVH (Noise, Vibration and Harshness) research in 
appliances and creation of sophisticated sensory superior 
features.
The Company shall continue its endeavour to adopt 
technologies for its product range to meet the requirements of 
a globally competitive market.
The expenditure incurred on Research and Development
(` in Crores)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
(a)	 Capital
31.30
25.93
(b)	 Recurring
226.65
180.18
TOTAL
257.95 
206.11 
Total R&D Expenditure 
as % of Total Turnover
1.19%
1.11%
Note: The above capital expenditure doesn’t include the value of land.
(C)	 FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO 
	
Our journey to localizing the business in the U.S. has 
begun with a smooth and successful transition. Over 
the past year, we’ve tested and nurtured opportunities 
in developed markets, which now contribute 19% of our 
sales—an incredible leap from being non-existent just 
three years ago. Meanwhile, our core emerging markets in 
the AMESA region have expanded rapidly, now matching 
our total international business, and growing at strong 
double digit annually.
Looking at our portfolio, we see strong momentum in Cables, 
Fans, and export oriented opportunities in Air Conditioners 
for next year. In cables, we will scale up with existing partners 
while leveraging key learnings to expand portfolio, ensure a 
stable supply, and drive cost efficiencies.
Next year, we are doubling down on brand-building efforts in 
the U.S. and Middle East, with a sharp focus on preference 
creation, channel development, and enhanced market visibility 
to strengthen our position in these key markets
The details of foreign exchange earnings and outgo during 
the period under review is as under:
(` in Crores)
Particulars 
2024-25
2023-24
Foreign Exchange earned
715.83
504.52 
Foreign Exchange used
2,807.78
2,629.49 
For and on behalf of 
Board of Directors of Havells India Limited 
Anil Rai Gupta 
Noida, April 22, 2025
Chairman and Managing Director
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
125
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility &  
Sustainability Reporting
FOREWORD
We are pleased to share our 4th Business Reporting and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) for the financial year April 1, 2024, 
to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25). The BRSR for FY 2025 is aligned with the nine principles of the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India. Our BRSR report is in 
line with the SEBI mandate for top 150 listed companies for undertaking assurance or assessment of the BRSR Core 
KPIs. Reasonable assurance has been carried out on the same by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP.
The Report aims to inform you of our sustainability performance, providing a comprehensive overview of our efforts and 
achievements in this critical area. Our purpose is to make sustainable living commonplace, ensuring that our actions 
today contribute to a better tomorrow. We are committed to sustainable growth by delivering products that meet the 
evolving needs of our consumers while minimizing their impact on the environment. This commitment is reflected in our 
innovative approaches to product design, manufacturing, and distribution, all aimed at reducing our ecological footprint. 
We firmly believe that sustainability and profitability go hand in hand. By integrating sustainable practices into our business 
model, we not only protect the planet but also drive long-term value for our stakeholders. Our initiatives include reducing 
waste, conserving resources, and promoting ethical sourcing. We also engage with our consumers, encouraging them to 
make environmentally conscious choices. 
At Havells, we consider reporting on sustainability to be a transparent way to engage with our stakeholders by sharing with 
them the progress we are making through our initiatives. This transparency is crucial as it builds trust and demonstrates our 
commitment to sustainable practices. Over the past few years, sustainability reporting has gained significant importance 
globally. It serves as a vital communication tool for corporates to showcase their dedication to being sustainable and 
responsible businesses. By providing detailed insights into our sustainability efforts, we can highlight the positive impacts 
we are making on the environment and society. 
At Havells, we have embraced this change by adopting robust sustainability reporting frameworks that align with international 
standards. Our reports cover various aspects of our sustainability journey, including environmental stewardship, social 
responsibility, and governance practices. We believe that by sharing our progress, challenges, and future goals, we can 
foster a culture of continuous improvement and innovation.
During FY 2024-25, we undertook several key measures to reduce our carbon footprint, increase energy efficiency, and 
minimize waste generation. At Havells, our plants are deeply committed to sustainability, incorporating energy-efficient 
manufacturing processes and leveraging in-house capabilities in production. One of our significant achievements in 
this area has been the installation of solar panels at our manufacturing operations. We have also initiated our Lifecycle 
Assessment (LCA) journey to support our Product Sustainability Roadmap. Our dedication to sustainability is also 
reflected in our waste management practices. We continue to be Zero-Waste-to-Landfill certified for all our manufacturing 
plants and corporate offices. This certification marks a significant milestone in our sustainability journey, demonstrating 
our ability to manage waste effectively and minimize our environmental impact. Achieving this certification underscores 
our commitment to responsible waste management and our efforts to create a more sustainable future. In conclusion, 
our initiatives during FY 25 highlight our unwavering commitment to sustainability. From reducing carbon emissions 
and increasing energy efficiency to achieving zero waste continuously and enhancing ESG criteria, we are dedicated to 
making a positive impact on the environment and society. Our efforts not only contribute to a more sustainable future but 
also reinforce our position as a leader in the electrical equipment sector.
Looking ahead to the forthcoming years, let us reinvigorate our commitment to Havells’s sustainability and ESG objectives 
and goals. Havells shall preserve in its pursuit of innovation, collaboration, and exemplary conduct, demonstrating 
unequivocally our commitment and responsibility to collaborate with the right stakeholders towards a sustainable future.
We realise that sustainability is a continuous journey, and we all are responsible for ensuring that our growth is sustainable 
and inclusive.
Havells India Limited
126
SECTION A: 
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
DETAILS OF THE LISTED ENTITY
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed 
Entity
L31900DL1983PLC016304
2
Name of the Listed Entity
Havells India Limited
3
Year of incorporation
1983
4
Registered office address
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building, KG Marg, Connaught Place, 
New Delhi – 110001
5
Corporate address
QRG Towers, 2D, Sector – 126, Expressway, Noida – 201304
6
E-mail
sustainability@havells.com
7
Telephone
0120-3331000
8
Website
www.havells.com
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done
FY 2024-25
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares 
are listed
The National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
BSE Ltd.
11
Paid-up Capital
` 62,69,41,732 as of 31st March 2025
12
Name and contact details (telephone, email 
address) of the person who may be contacted 
in case of any queries on the BRSR report
Shri Nitin Singh
Telephone no.: 0120-3331000
e-mail id: sustainability@havells.com
13
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under 
this report made on a standalone basis (i.e., 
only for the entity) or on a consolidated basis 
(i.e. for the entity and all the entities which form 
a part of its consolidated financial statements, 
taken together) 
The reporting boundary covers the operations of Havells India 
Limited on a standalone basis. This includes all nine manufacturing 
locations - Alwar (Rajasthan), Neemrana (Rajasthan), Ghiloth 
(Rajasthan), Baddi (Himachal Pradesh), Faridabad (Haryana), 
Haridwar (Uttarakhand), Sahibabad (Uttar Pradesh), Sri City 
(Andhra Pradesh) and Tumakuru (Karnataka). This also includes 
Corporate office (Noida, Uttar Pradesh), branch offices (24), 
warehouses (19) and one CRI office (Noida, Uttar Pradesh)
14
Name of assurance provider 
Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
15
Type of assurance obtained
Reasonable
II.	
PRODUCTS / SERVICES
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. 
No.
Description of  
Main Activity
Description of  
Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1.
Switchgears
Switches, Domestic Switchgears, Industrial 
Switchgears, Capacitors, Automation and Control
11.02%
2.
Cables
Power Cable and Flexible Cables
33.03%
3.
Lighting and Fixture
Professional Luminaires and Consumer Luminaires
7.60%
4.
Electrical Consumer Durables
Fans, Small domestic appliances and Water Heaters
18.45%
5.
Lloyd Consumer
Air Conditioners, Refrigerator, Washing Machine 
Televisions, and other domestic appliances
23.56%
6.
Others
Motors, Solar, Pump, Water Purifiers and Personal 
Grooming Products
6.34%
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
127
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
17.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover): 
S. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1.
Cables
27320
33.03%
2.
Switchgears
26513, 27104 & 27331
11.02%
3.
Electronic Consumer Durables
27501, 27502, 28132, 27503, 
25931, 27504, 28195 & 27103
18.45%
4.
Lighting and Fixtures
27400, 26101, 26104 & 35105
7.60%
5.
Lloyd Consumer
28192, 27501 & 26401
23.56%
III.	 OPERATIONS
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National (Standalone)
16
45
61
International (Subsidiaries)
-
4
4
Notes: National – Number of offices include branches and warehouses
International – Only sales office
19.	 Markets served by the entity:
	
a.	
Number of locations 
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
Pan India
International (No. of Countries)
70+
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 
	
	
Havells International Business presently contributes around 3.68% of the overall business of the company. We currently 
supply our products to more than 70+ countries worldwide and have invested heavily in HR resources, products, and 
channels to achieve the desired growth in our International Business. Additionally, we have expanded our business by 
entering the US market and we are in the process of developing a roadmap to enter other developed markets as well, 
including Europe, and Australia.
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers 
	
	
Havells is a well-known Fast Moving Electrical Goods Company and a major manufacturer of power distribution equipment 
with a strong presence around the world. We have a strong market presence in a variety of products, both industrial 
and domestic. We were the first to introduce exclusive brand showrooms in the electric industry with ‘Havells Galaxy’. 
Since then, we have rolled out multiple exclusive retail formats to cater to evolving needs of discerning consumers. Now, 
we have over 1000+ exclusive Brand Stores across the country, allowing both domestic and commercial customers to 
select from a wide range of products for various purposes. We are the most popular FMEG company in rural markets, 
where we have gained market share in various categories and increased their distribution penetration under the “Rural 
Vistaar” initiative. We have also opened 700+ exclusive stores “Havells utsav” for reaching towns with less than 10,000 
inhabitants. For urban markets, Havells has multiple channels, including dealers, distributors, e-commerce, brand 
shops, modern format retail, canteens, and projects.
Havells India Limited
128
IV.	 EMPLOYEES
20.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year:
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
7,117
6,662
93.61%
455
6.39%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
9,114
8,016
87.95%
1,098
12.05%
3.
Total employees (D + E)
16,231
14,678
90.43%
1,553
9.57%
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
415
395
95.18%
20
4.82%
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
19,737
15,982
80.97%
3,755
19.03%
6.
Total workers (F + G)
20,152
16,377
81.27
3,775
18.73%
	
	
Note: The figure of permanent employee does not include directors, KMP and apprentices. 
	
	
During the year, we continued to focus on building a diverse and inclusive workforce culture. As part of our diversity goals there has been 
an increase in overall female workforce from 13% in FY 2024 to 14.6% in FY 2025.
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
6
6
100.00%
-
-
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
-
-
-
-
-
3.
Total employees (D + E)
6
6
100.00%
-
-
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
5
5
100.00%
-
-
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
8
8
100.00%
-
-
6.
Total workers (F + G)
13
13
100.00%
-
-
21.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Particulars
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
14
1
7.14%
Key Management Personnel*
1
-
-
	
*Excluding BOD
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 years) 	  
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
20.60%
22.20%
20.70%
18.84%
19.84%
18.89%
17.41%
27.91%
17.86%
Permanent Workers
4.47%
40.00%
6.54%
5.12%
37.50%
7.46%
3.38%
10.34%
3.84%
	
Note: Please refer to page 45 of IAR for details of Human Capital.
V.	
HOLDING, SUBSIDARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (INCLUDING JOINT VENTURE)
23.	 (a)	 Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures 
S. 
No.
Name of the holding / 
Subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated at 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
1.
Havells Guangzhou Limited, China
Subsidiary
100%
No
2.
Havells International Inc., USA
Subsidiary
100%
No
3.
Havells HVAC LLC, USA
Subsidiary of Havells 
International Inc., USA
80%
No
4.
Havells Lighting LLC, USA
Subsidiary of Havells 
International Inc.,USA
68.75%
No
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
129
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
VI.	 CSR DETAILS 
24.	 (i)	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No): Yes
	
(ii)	
Turnover (in `): 21,745.81 Cr
	
(iii)	
Net Worth (in `): 8,330.99 Cr
VII.	 TRANSPARENCY AND DISCLOSURE COMPLIANCES
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No)
FY2024-25
FY 2023-24
(If yes, then 
provide web-link 
for grievance 
redress policy)
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
YES
-
-
 
-
-
 
Investors (other than 
shareholders)
YES
-
-
 
-
-
 
Shareholders
YES
3
-
Source: 
Stakeholder 
Relationship 
Committee
9
-
Source: 
Stakeholder 
Relationship 
Committee
Employees and 
workers
YES
18
-
Concerns and 
suggestions 
received 
through 
various formal 
and informal 
modes
24
-
Concerns and 
suggestions 
received 
through 
various formal 
and informal 
modes
Customers*
YES
12,465
-
Concerns and 
suggestions 
received on 
social media, 
Consumer 
email id 
and central 
feedback 
number
8,535
-
Concerns and 
suggestions 
received on 
social media, 
Consumer 
email id 
and central 
feedback 
number
Value Chain Partners
YES
6
-
3
-
 
Other (please 
specify)
 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
*Number includes only grievances / escalations. 
	
Havells places great emphasis on customer service and satisfaction, and we firmly believe in delivering the best service to 
our valued customers. Our primary goal is to minimize instances of customer complaints and grievances through effective 
service delivery and regular reviews. We are dedicated to promptly addressing and resolving any customer concerns or 
complaints. Havells has implemented a well-structured mechanism for addressing grievances. We are committed to fostering 
openness, promoting transparency, and reporting improvements without the fear of reprisal. Havells strictly adheres to ‘Zero 
Tolerance’ Policies regarding non-compliance and is dedicated to cultivating a culture that upholds high ethical standards 
and ensures safe working conditions for all employees. We have established a comprehensive system to safeguard our 
intellectual property, including trademarks, logos, patents, and product designs, by registering them under relevant acts. 
Additionally, we have a process in place for reporting whistleblower complaints, known as “Satark,” to the Board and external 
auditors on quartely basis.Grievance redressal policy to be found on the link: https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/Code-
and-policies/VigilMechanism_SatarkPolicy.pdf. For detailed information on our grievance redressal process, please refer to 
page 175 of the IAR.
25.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues. 
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental 
and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, 
approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format.
	
Please refer to the materiality page and risk management page in IAR 20 and 34
Havells India Limited
130
SECTION B: 
MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the 
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1.	
a. 	
Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle and its 
core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
b. 	 Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
c. 	
Web Link of the Policies, if available
https://havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-
relation/codes-and-policies.html
2.	
Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. (Yes / 
No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3. 	
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? (Yes/
No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
4. 	
Name of the national and international codes/certifications/labels/ 
standards (e.g., Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest 
Alliance, Trusted) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) 
adopted by your entity and mapped to each principle.
The below ISO certifications have been taken up at 
an organization wide level:
ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 45001. ISO 
27001.  
We are BIS compliant
5. 	
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with 
defined timelines, if any.
Please refer to IAR, page 29
6. 	
Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, goals 
and targets along-with reasons in case the same are not met.
Please refer to IAR, page 29
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets 
and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure) - Please refer to IAR Chairman 
Statement, page 15
8.	
Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility policy (ies).
Name: Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
Designation: Whole-time Director
DIN: 00002838
9.	
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues? (Yes 
/ No). If yes, provide details.
Yes
Name: Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
Designation: Whole-time Director
DIN: 00002838
10. 	Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director / Committee of the Board/ Any other 
Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Any other – please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against above	
policies and follow up action
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
On a periodic basis, the ESG performance of the 
company is reported to the executive committee 
of the Board and follow up actions are mapped 
out.
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles,	 and rectification of 
any non-compliances
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Compliance report across all statutory requirements 
is submitted to the Directors on a monthly basis 
and to audit committee on a quarterly basis. In 
addition, the Control Manager tool is used to track 
and enforce 100% compliance. 
11.	 Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/No). 
If yes, provide name of the agency.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
 Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
131
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
SECTION C: 
PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key 
processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are 
expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed 
by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally, and ethically responsible.
For the Fiscal Year 2024-25, Industry standards on reporting of BRSR core issued by SEBI dated December 20, 2024, (hereinafter 
referred to as “Industry Standards”) have been referred to, as applicable. Consequently for certain KPIs the figures reported for 
this year may not be directly comparable to those reported in the previous year due to the changes in standards prescribing an 
approach different from that taken by the company last year.
PRINCIPLE 1 
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent 
and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial 
year: 
Segment
Total number of 
training and awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under the training and 
its impact
Percentage of persons in 
respective category covered 
by the awareness Programs
Board of Directors
5
A comprehensive presentation of various topics, such  
as enterprise risk management, environment, social,  
governance (ESG) cybersecurity and information  
security, brand and marketing strategy, Investor 
relation, Sales operation etc., is carried  
out in the context of the familiarization programme.
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
5
100%
Employees other 
than BoD and 
KMPs
21
All employees are required to undergo the Code of 
Conduct, Human Rights Policy, Anti-Corruption and 
Anti-Bribery Policy, Idea (Innovative thinking and 
creativity in the group / for any suggestions), Satark 
(for Right Doing under Vigil Mechanism) and Nirbhaya 
training (under POSH). 
Technical trainings like Health & Safety, Design Failure 
Mode and Effects Analysis (DFMEA), Built-In Quality 
(BIQ), Kaizen, Big Data, Lean Manufacturing, Agile 
Methodology, Geometric Dimensioning and Tolerancing 
(GD&T), Integrated Management System (IMS), 
Ideation Workshops were also covered for R&D and 
manufacturing employees.
Personal Effectiveness, Communication Mastery, 
Collaboration, Decision Making were also covered for 
respective Sales, Corporate Functions, Manufacturing 
& CRI employees
100%
Workers
7
Workers are required to undergo training on Health & 
Safety, Skill upgradation, Human Rights Policy, Quality 
Concepts, POSH, BIQ and Code of Conduct 
100%
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the principles material to its 
business (Yes/No)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Any other reason (please specify)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Havells India Limited
132
2.	
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings 
(by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the 
financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as 
specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as 
disclosed on the entity’s website) 
	
There were no material fines/ penalties/punishment/ award/compounding fees/ settlement amount of material paid in 
proceedings by the directors/ KMPs to regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions during FY 2025.
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed. 
	
Not applicable
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
Yes, Havells India Limited has implemented a comprehensive policy to combat corruption and bribery. The policy can be 
accessed from the following link: https://havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-relation/codes-and-policies.html. Havells 
maintain a zero-tolerance stance towards corruption and bribery in any form. We expect all our employees to fully comply with 
the relevant anti-corruption laws, Havells’ Code of Conduct, and this policy demonstrating strict adherence with ethical and 
transparent business practices with zero violations. Our employees are expected to strictly refrain from accepting donations, 
discounts, favors, or services from existing or potential clients, competitors, suppliers, or service providers. Furthermore, 
every employee is required to provide an annual declaration confirming their adherence to these policies.
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery / corruption: 
	
No disciplinary action was taken against any Directors/KMPs/employees/workers by any law enforcement agency for charges 
of bribery/ corruption. 
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
	
No complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors in FY 2025.
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of 
interest.
	
There were no cases of corruptions or conflicts of interest which required action by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions.
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the 
following format: 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables
58.21 Days
65.85 Days
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency. 
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024-25 indicators 
in the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 359
	
As per the industry standards released by SEBI, cost of goods/services procured also includes capital expenditure made by the company in 
FY 2024-25.  Hence, the number is not comparable to last year’s number to that extent.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
133
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
9.	
Open-ness of business Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, 
and related parties along-with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following 
format: 
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-2025
FY 2023-2024
Concentration 
of Purchases
a. 	
Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
4.62%
0.56%
b. 	 Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
466
72
c. 	
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses
49.97%
69.54%
Concentration 
of Sales
a. 	
Sales to dealers/ distributors as % of total sales
75.70%
79.69%
b. 	 Number of dealers/distributors to whom sales are made
16,324
15,035
c. 	
Sales to top 10 dealers/distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers/ distributors
3.51%
3.45%
Share of RPTs 
in
a. 	
Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total Purchases)
1.01%
0.97%
b. 	 Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
0.13%
0.05%
c. 	
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related parties/ 
Total loans & advances)*
-
-
d. 	 Investments^  
(Investments in related parties / Total Investments made)*
85.17%
51.43% 
 	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency. 
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024-25 indicators 
in the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 359
	
^ Including investment in subsidiary
	
As per the industry standards released by SEBI, we have reassessed the number of trading houses in the current reporting period. Hence 
the number is not comparable to last year’s number to that extent.
	
*For loans and advances and Investments, closing balances disclosed in the audited standalone financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2025 have been considered.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial 
year:
Total Number of awareness  
programmes held 
Topics/Principle covered  
under the training
% of value chain partner covered (by value of 
business done with such partners) under the 
awareness programs
Multiple training/Awareness sessions 
carried out during the year
P1, P2, P3, P4, P5, P6, P7, 
P8, P9
100% of upstream, downstream value chain 
partners and employees have been covered. 
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the 
Board? (Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes, the company has implemented various codes and policies to effectively handle conflicts of interest involving members of 
the Board. Havells requires all Board members to submit a mandatory declaration, ensuring their compliance with the Code 
of Ethics. This requirement applies to all Directors, Senior Management, and employees across the entire Havells Group. 
By adhering to these standards, the company aims to uphold and enforce proper business conduct. The Code serves as a 
deterrent against misconduct and promotes ethical behavior within the organization. For more information, please visit the 
following link: https://www.havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-relation/codes-and-policies.html
PRINCIPLE 2 
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by 
the entity, respectively.
	
Havells India is committed to being a responsible corporate citizen, and we take product stewardship seriously. Our R&D 
team is dedicated to developing products with a systematic approach that prioritizes environmental and social cause. We 
aim to improve energy efficiency, reduce water usage, minimize waste generation, adopt Lean manufacturing with reduced 
material use by lowering carbon footprints and continuously improve the quality, durability and performance of our products. 
In doing so, we are going to incorporate Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) as part of our new product development process. 
Havells India Limited
134
	
We adopt a focused approach to using clean technology in our processes and product stewardship during the design 
phase. Our R&D efforts are centered around key focus areas such as energy efficiency, quality, durability, and the usage of 
sustainable and low carbon footprint materials in our products. 
	
In FY 2024-25, we invested ` 226.65 Cr in R&D and ` 31.30 Cr in capital expenditure. In total, we spent ` 257.95 Cr, with 
46.61% of our R&D expenditure dedicated to improving the environmental and social impacts of our products and processes. 
We also invested in capex to improve technology and build capacity for innovation. 
	
At Havells India, we are committed to designing and developing products that not only meet customer needs but also 
contribute to a better world. We strive to reduce our environmental impact and create a more sustainable future for all.
2.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
Yes, Havells India Limited is committed to having a sustainable supply chain on social, ethical and environment aspects and 
following established sustainable practices for our suppliers. We undertake capacity building for our suppliers periodically 
where ESG guidelines and expectations are shared with all strategic suppliers. We have established a procedure to follow 
Sourcing Agreements and Vendor Codes of Conduct, in addition to contractual ESG obligations to encourage vendors 
to adhere to ESG guidelines. A stringent process is put in place to evaluate all new suppliers on ESG parameters such 
as Statutory and Regulatory compliances under Environment, Energy, Waste Management, Health and Safety working 
conditions, etc. 80% (266) of our sourcing was through sustainable sourcing in FY 2025, which will continue to improve 
further.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the 
end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste. 
	
Havells has forged partnerships with government authorized recyclers as part of its e-Waste & Battery Waste recycling 
initiative as well as plastic waste management collection program. A detailed MOU has been signed for e-Waste, Battery 
Waste, and plastic waste management with the identified treatment value-chain player. Havells offers e-waste drop-off centers 
and ensures environmentally safe management of electronics that have reached their end-of-life or are defective spare 
parts. All necessary legal authorizations required for the processing facilities have been obtained and approved by relevant 
governmental agencies. The recycling and disposal of e-waste are crucial in protecting the environment from hazardous 
consequences.
	
We encourage our channel partners, consumers, and bulk consumers to contribute to environmental preservation by properly 
disposing of their old consumer durable products, accessories, or defective spares. We have various avenues for customers 
to reach us for end-of-life disposal, including a dedicated customer care number (1800 1020 666), website visit, or email 
at ewaste@havells.com. Once we receive end-of-life products at our collection center, we direct them to e-waste recyclers 
authorized by the Central Pollution Control Board/State Pollution Control Board for further processing.
	
In the financial year 2024-25, we reclaimed 33,718 MT of e-waste, 386 MT of Battery Waste and 5,477 MT of plastic 
packaging waste.
	
All our manufacturing facilities are Zero Waste to Landfill (ZWL) certified by renowned third party agency. It shows that our 
company is committed to sustainable practices and reducing its environmental impact. Any hazardous waste generated at 
the factories is securely disposed of with authorized hazardous waste management and disposal agencies approved by State 
Pollution Control Boards (SPCB). Additionally, disposing of non-hazardous solid waste and biomedical waste with authorized 
waste recyclers and biomedical waste disposal agencies ensures secured disposal and minimizes any negative impact on 
the environment.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted 
to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Yes, we have adhered to government regulations and submitted the Extended Producer Responsibility plan, which is now 
accessible in the public domain. In the financial year 2024-25, we successfully achieved 100% EPR Target for plastic waste 
by collecting and sustainably disposing of 5,477 MT of plastic waste nationwide. Additionally, we fulfilled our E-Waste EPR 
obligations by reaching the 100% target through the collection and recycling of 33,718 MT of e-waste and 386 MT of 
Battery Waste.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
135
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/ Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? 
	
During FY 2024 – 25, we explored various tools and material databases required for conducting LCA of key products. After 
assessment of leading global players providing such services, we have narrowed down to one potential partner to initiate 
LCA capacity building within the organization. This exercise will be undertaken in FY 2025 – 26 and is expected to yield LCA 
of 5/6 SKUs of our key product categories.
	
For integrating LCA into our NPD, process Design for Sustainability (DFS) review is added to key stages of our NPD process, 
upgradation of our project management system is in process to reflect this change and will be rolled out in FY 2025 – 26.
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal 
of your products/services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) or through any 
other means, briefly describe the same along with action taken to mitigate the same
	
Not Applicable
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for 
manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry). 
Recycled or re-used Input material to total material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
22% Recycled Paper Used
2.64% Recycled Paper Used
	
In FY 2024-25, our recycled paper usage had increased to 22% from 2.64% in FY 2023-24. We switched from Folding Box 
Board (FBB) to Grey Back Board (GBB) board which has a high percentage of recycled fiber. We also increased the usage of 
Semi kraft paper for corrugated boxes instead of virgin Kraft paper and used molded pulp trays made up of recycled paper 
as an alternate to Expanded polystyrene.
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, 
recycled, and safely disposed 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely Disposed
Plastics (includ-
ing packaging)
-
5,477 MT
-
-
5,478 MT
-
E-Waste
-
33,718 MT
-
-
25,046 MT
-
Hazardous waste
-
386 MT
-
-
513 MT
-
Other waste
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product 
category. 
	
Please refer to responses to Question 3 and 4 above
PRINCIPLE 3 
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains.
Essential Indicators
1.	
a. 	 Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Number 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
% 
 (D/A)
Number 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent employees
Male
6,662
6,662
100%
6,662
100.00%
-
-
6,662
100.00%
6,662
100.00%
Female
455
455
100%
455
100.00%
455
100.00%
-
-
455
100.00%
Total
7,117
7,117
100%
7,117
100.00%
455
6.39%
6,662
93.61%
7,117
100.00%
Other than Permanent employees
Male
8,016
8,016
100.00%
8,016
100.00%
-
-
8,016
100.00%
-
-
Female
1,098
1,098
100.00%
1,098
100.00%
1,098
100.00%
-
-
-
-
Total
9,114
9,114 100.00%
9,114
100.00%
1,098 100.00%
8,016 100.00%
-
-
Havells India Limited
136
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of workers covered by
Total 
(A)
Health insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
% 
 (D/A)
Number 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent workers
Male
395
395 100.00%
-
-
-
-
-
-
395 100.00%
Female
20
20 100.00%
-
-
20 100.00%
-
-
20 100.00%
Total
415
415 100.00%
-
-
20
4.82%
-
-
415 100.00%
Other than Permanent workers
Male
15,982
15,982
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
3,755
3,755
100%
-
-
3,755 100.00%
-
-
3,755 100.00%
Total
19,737
19,737
100%
-
-
3,755
19.03%
-
-
3,755
19.03%
	
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other 
than permanent) in the following format –
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the company*
0.15
0.13
	
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of 
the external agency. 
	
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024-25 
indicators in the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 359
	
	
*For the purpose of calculating the spending on measures towards well being of employees and workers, the Company has considered 
the expense incurred towards employees/workers Health Insurance, Accidental Insurance, Life Insurance, Parental Leaves, Creche 
Facilities and other medical expenses, net of any recoveries made from the employees/workers.
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees*
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers*
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100.00%
100%
Y
100.00%
100%*
Y
Gratuity
100.00%
95.66%
N
100.00%
92.7%*
N
ESI
0.93%
53.49%
Y
1.65%*
63.49%*
Y
Others – please Specify- 
NPS
11.90%
-
N
3.55%*
-
Y
LTRI
1.14%
-
N
1.62%*
-
N
ESOP 2014
3.08%
-
N
2.12%
-
N
ESOP 2015
0.03%
-
N
0.03%
-
N
ESOP 2016
0.52%
-
N
0.55%
-
N
ESOP 2022
3.55%
-
N
3.17%
-
N
	
Majority of the workers are covered under the Employee State Insurance (ESI). For those workers who are not covered 
under ESI, the company has voluntarily provided them with a medical insurance policy. Ensuring the health and well-being of 
employees is critical for their overall productivity and job satisfaction. The availability of such policies can provide employees 
with the necessary support and care when needed, which can help improve their morale and productivity.
	
* Previous year figures have been reinstated due to a change in the calculation method. Earlier, the number of workers covered as % of total 
workers were computed based on total workforce i.e. employees and workers, instead of total workers only. The reinstatement has been 
made to reflect accurate classification and ensure consistency.
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces 
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken 
by the entity in this regard. 
	
Yes, the premises and offices of Havells have been designed with the accessibility of differently-abled employees in mind. 
Ramps have been built to facilitate easy movement, and separate washrooms have been created specifically for differently-
abled people to improve usability and access.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
137
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If 
so, provide a web-link to the policy.
	
Yes. Havells is dedicated to ensuring that all of its employees, job applicants, and workers are treated fairly in a discrimination-free 
environment. We have established a policy that guarantees non-discrimination based on age, disability, gender reassignment, 
marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race (including color, nationality, and ethnic origins), religion, belief, 
sexual orientation, and illness. We are an equal opportunity workplace that follows gender-neutral compensation policies and 
norms. To learn more about our diversity and equal opportunity policy, please visit
	
https://havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-relation/codes-and-policies.html.
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender 
FY 2024-25
Permanent employees
Permanent worker*
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100%
78.60%
100%
100.00%
Female
100%
90.00%
None of the female worker availed maternity benefits.
Total
100%
79.03%
100%
100.00%
	
We believe in instilling work life balance in our work environment in FY 2024-25, 252 male employees, workers and 19 female 
employee availed parental leave. 
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief. 
Yes
(details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Yes, we have implemented a structured grievance redressal system called SATARK to 
address any concerns that may arise. This system is designed to promote transparency, 
encourage feedback, and facilitate improvements without any fear of retaliation.
Various channels of communication are available for employees and workers to raise 
their grievances. These include a suggestion box or drop box, which is not under camera 
surveillance, placed at all our locations. Additionally, individuals can also share their 
concerns via email at a dedicated email address specifically created for this purpose.
Our grievance redressal policy is applicable to all stakeholders, including directors, 
employees, partners, customers, vendors, contractors, clients, internal or external auditors, 
and any other third parties associated with Havells India Limited, both in India and overseas.
Anyone mentioned above is encouraged to make a protected disclosure if they have any 
grievances. If the complaint falls under the jurisdiction of a separate redressal committee 
or forum, it will be handled accordingly by the respective committee or forum.
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent 
Employees
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity: 
	
At our company, we believe in respecting the rights of our employees. While we may not have any trade unions, we 
wholeheartedly acknowledge and support the freedom of association and collective bargaining.
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
On Health and safety 
measures**
On Skill 
Upgradation*
Total (X)
On Health and  
safety measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
No. (B)
% (B / A) No. (C)
% (C / A)
No. (Y)
% (Y/ X) No. (Z) % (Z / X)
 
Employees
Male
6,662
6,662
100.00%
6,662
100.00%
6,347
3,498
55.11%
6,347
100.00%
Female
455
455
100.00%
455
100.00%
365
271
74.25%
365
100.00%
Total
7,117
7,117
100.00%
7,117
100.00%
6,712
3,769
56.15%
6,712 100.00%
 
Workers
Male
395
395
100.00%
395
100.00%
411
411
100.00%
411
100.00%
Female
20
20
100.00%
20
100.00%
30
30
100.00%
30
100.00%
Total
415
415
100.00%
415
100.00%
441
441
100.00%
441 100.00%
	
Note: For more details on our training programs and human capital development initiative, please refer to Human capital section in IAR page 49. 
	
* Skill Upgradation includes All behavioural and technical programs
	
** Health & Safety includes All Health & Safety and Compliance programs
Havells India Limited
138
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:	
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Male
6,662
5,906
88.65%
6,347
5,970
94.06%
Female
455
411
90.33%
365
343
93.97%
Total
7,117
6,317
88.76%
6,712
6,313
94.06%
Workers
Male
395
395
100.00%
411
411
100.00%
Female
20
20
100.00%
30
30
100.00%
Total
415
415
100.00%
441
441
100.00%
10.	 Health and safety management system:
	
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If 
yes, the coverage such system? 
	
	
Yes. The Company has implemented ISO 45001 for the health and well-being of its workforce. Various awareness sessions/
trainings are conducted on safety related aspects for the workforce. The implementation of ISO 45001 is not due to any 
legal requirements but voluntarily to provide a structured framework to ensure healthy and safe environment. Training 
related to Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment (HIRA) and Total Productive Maintenance are also conducted. 
Back-to-basics initiatives with respect to the coverage of safety parameters have been implemented to maintain a safe 
workplace culture. QEEHS has been implemented as an initiative to eliminate hazards and reduce occupational health 
& safety risks via participation and consultation of workers. HIL encourage all their employees and workers to report on 
hazardous situations, enabling them to take corrective and preventive actions. Scheduled Medical Examinations have 
been conducted for workers engaged in Hazardous work activities. Monthly Safety Review has been facilitated by HO and 
Chaired by Manufacturing Site Head/Plant Head on a rotation basis and learning has been implemented across all units 
to avoid the reoccurrence of incidents. HIL also conducts inter plant safety audit wherein EHS head of 1 or 2 plant audits 
the safety related parameters of another plant in order to help them identify the area of improvements regarding safety 
Further, National Safety Week was celebrated across all the plants from 4th – 10th March 2025 in order to create awareness 
about safety, health, and environment aspects and to promote workplace safety. The Company is focused on both, the 
physical and mental well-being of its workforce and organising various programs and discussions with well-being experts 
and medical practitioners. Our health and safety management system and the policy is applicable to all the production 
facilities and corporate office of Havells India Limited and will be reviewed periodically as and when necessary to ensure its 
continued applicability and relevance to its operations and evolving stakeholder expectations. 
	
	
All production facilities of HIL are certified & audited for Occupational Health and Safety Management system certification 
i.e. ISO 45001:2018.
	
	
The operations conducted at our branch offices and warehouses do not perceive any occupational risks and hazards, 
therefore, they are not covered under our occupational health and safety management system. However, their health 
and safety is our priority, and we are committed to ensuring that they have a safe working environment.
	
	
Note: Workforce in this question includes employee, temporary employees, workers, temporary workers, contractual employees and 
contractual workers.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis 
by the entity? Please refer to IAR section for detailed description.
	
	
Havells has implemented various measures and initiatives to identify work-related hazards and evaluate risks, both on a 
routine and non-routine basis.
	
	
•	
Gemba walk 
	
	
•	
Hazard Identification and Risk assessment (HIRA)
	
	
•	
Internal and External audit 
	
	
•	
Safe Work permit system 
	
	
•	
Incident Management System 
	
	
•	
Workplace environment Monitoring
	
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such 
risks. (Y/N)
	
	
Yes, the Company has processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such 
risks.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
139
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
	
d.	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No) 
	
	
Yes, we prioritize the health and well-being of our workforce above everything else. Our aim is to create a workplace 
environment that is supportive and promotes happiness and good health. To achieve this, we have partnered with 
healthcare providers across India to offer high-quality healthcare services to our workforce and their dependents 24/7. 
Our partnership with these hospitals includes coverage for outpatient services, health check-ups, and hospitalization 
services at discounted rates. Additionally, each of our empanelled hospitals has assigned a single point of contact to 
provide priority services and address any queries in case of hospitalization.
	
	
To further promote the health and well-being of our workforce, we offer access to various wellness workshops in all plant 
locations, including our headquarters. Our wellness program, known as “Wellness Wednesday,” focuses on helping 
individuals lead healthier, more balanced, and purposeful lives. We have developed a strategic and structured wellness 
approach with our impaneled hospitals and partners to provide services such as Gynecology, Cardiology, Orthopedics, 
Gastroenterology, and more.
	
	
Please refer to our health and safety section in the IAR on page 55 for more details on the above disclosure.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format: 
Safety Incident/Number
 Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours 
worked)
Employees
-
0.08
Workers
0.14
0.18
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
-
2
Workers
5
7
No. of fatalities
Employees
-
-
Workers
-
1
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities) / 
No. of Permanent Disabilities
Employees
-
-
Workers
-
-
	
Note : Rates have been calculated basis 10,00,000 hours worked
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency. 
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024-25 indicators 
in the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 359
	
As per the industry standards released by SEBI, number of permanent disabilities is disclosed under High Consequence Work related 
Injuries/ Ill health by the company.
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace. 
	
Yes, we have numerous measures in place to establish a safe workplace and culture. Please refer to our IAR page 56-57 for 
more details
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers
Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remark*
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Working Conditions
-
 -
3
 -
Health and Safety
-
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100% of the plants were assessed by company and 3rd party Internal auditors
Working Conditions
100% of the plants were assessed by company and 3rd party Internal auditors
Havells India Limited
140
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
A.	
We have established Safety Command centres in all our manufacturing plants to monitor and promote safety culture.
	
B.	
Root Cause Analysis (RCA) is conducted for all the safety-related incidences and suitable corrective actions are 
taken. Safety Inspections and Safety Audits are conducted periodically. Corrective actions are implemented for all the 
observations observed by the auditors (internal as well as external).
	
C.	
Senior Management conducts a Monthly Safety Review. The key takeaways from the meeting are shared and 
implemented across all manufacturing sites. Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) are identified based on available 
hazards, and regular training programs are conducted to ensure their proper use. A risk control measure implementation 
program is in place to ensure their effectiveness.
	
D.	
We augmented the number of safety placards, posters, and signs at strategic locations to enhance safety awareness 
and remind everyone that safety is a collective responsibility.
	
Please refer to IAR section page no. 56-57 for more details
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees 
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N).
	
Havells strongly believes that good health is an essential part of life, and having a healthy workforce contributes to the 
productivity. Prioritizing the well-being of our employees and their families, we provide medical health insurance, accident 
insurance, and group term life insurance coverage for all our permanent employees and their declared dependents from the 
very first day of their joining at Havells.
	
To promote and support employee wellness, we have established the ‘Live Healthy’ program, which includes free consultations 
with renowned doctors in various medical fields at our Head Office. Through our partnerships with reputable hospitals and 
health labs across the country, we offer employees discounts on annual health checks and facilitate tests, treatments, and 
health checks.
	
During the untimely and unfortunate demise of our employee, we extended the following support to immediate family – 
	
•	
Mediclaim benefits to continue for the Dependent Family for 5 years from the year of demise of the employee.
	
•	
Education Fee Reimbursement on an actual basis or up to ` 1 Lac per year per child (max 2 children), till his/her 
graduation or 5 years, whichever is earlier. 
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and 
deposited by the value chain partners. 
	
All the partners involved in Havells’ value chain are covered under the Provident Fund (PF) Act and the Employees’ State 
Insurance (ESI) Act. As per the law, these partners are responsible for deducting and depositing the statutory dues. Additionally, 
the service contract between Havells and the service provider includes a clause under the ‘payment terms’ section, which 
mandates the service provider to make necessary statutory payments such as PF and ESI.
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-
health / fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed 
in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment
 
 
Total Number of affected Employee/Worker
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have 
been placed in suitable employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees
-
-
-
-
Workers
-
1
-
-
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No) 
	
No.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
141
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
% of value chain partner (by value of business  
done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
100.00%
Working Conditions
100.00%
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	
The company has implemented a methodical approach to establish a proactive safety program and foster a robust safety 
culture within the organization. Several progressive steps have been taken, including:
 i.	
Formation of a Management Safety Review Team consisting of Site Heads, Plant Heads, Factory Safety Officers, Factory 
HR Heads, and Engineering team members. Regular guidance is provided by the Director.
ii.	
Finalization of safety metrics for review, along with their definitions, by Site Heads. This includes 5 lagging indicators 
such as Lost Time Incident, Reportable Accident, Lost Time Incident Rate, No Lost Time Injury, and Fire Incident, as well 
as 2 leading indicators of Near Miss and Unsafe Acts & Unsafe Conditions.
iii.	
Periodic review of HIRA (Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment) and implementation of additional measures for 
further reduction of Risk in carrying out activities. 
iv.	
Introduction of the “One Point Lesson” accident investigation format, with horizontal deployment of all lessons.
v.	
Periodic Revision of the PPE Matrix, preparation of plant-wise PPE training modules, ongoing training programs, 
introduction of safety challans, and surprise checks by shop floor supervisors.
vi.	
Modification of the approval matrix in the Compliance Manager to standardize the approval authority following the 
transfer of the safety function reporting from the HR function to the Plant Heads.
vii.	
Establishment of a central repository of safety resources on Share Point accessible across the network.
Viii.	 Annual inter-plant safety assessment exercise (internal audit) by the EHS Team.
 
PRINCIPLE 4 
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity. 
	
We have structured our stakeholder identification process around the core principles of inclusivity, materiality, and 
responsiveness. Our stakeholder categories consist of those who are affected by Havells either directly or indirectly. This 
encompasses stakeholders to whom Havells holds legal, financial, or moral obligations. Furthermore, we have assessed 
the viewpoint of stakeholders who have the ability to influence or impact Havells’ strategic direction and decision-making 
processes. These efforts are rooted in our commitment to establishing trust-based relationships with our stakeholders and 
recognizing their priorities in fostering shared value for everyone.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group.
	
Please refer to the stakeholder engagement page 32 and risk management page 22 in IAR.
Leadership Indicator
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board. 
	
The principles of governance, ethics, integrity, and transparency form a solid foundation that guides our progress. Havells 
Board of Directors committees are responsible for overseeing and evaluating the company’s Sustainability strategy and 
Climate Action Plan. These committees, namely the CSR and ESG Committee and the Risk Management Committee, ensure 
effective governance in relation to material ESG aspects, including climate-related risks and opportunities. Havells India has 
recently restructured its CSR committee to encompass a broader ESG agenda, in addition to its CSR responsibilities. The 
CSR and ESG Committee will play a crucial role in supporting Havells India Ltd.’s commitment to sustainable and inclusive 
development, by integrating ESG considerations into the decision-making process. The Enterprises Risk Management 
Committee is tasked with identifying risks that may impact the company’s operations and developing policies and strategies 
to minimize and mitigate these risks as part of our risk management efforts. 
Havells India Limited
142
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, 
and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders 
on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity. 
	
Various functions of the Company systematically engage the stakeholders, as stated in the stakeholder section of essential 
indicator 2 in this principle. Our sustainability model is centered around creating value for stakeholders by identifying the 
material topics of Havells through consultation. In order to align long-term thinking and goal orientation, Environmental, 
Social, Governance (ESG) related key performance indicators (KPIs) have been identified for the inclusion of ESG metrics in 
the measurement of senior management’s performance-linked compensation. 
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups. 
	
Havells’ Corporate Social Responsibility philosophy is driven by the idea that small actions can bring about significant changes 
in people’s lives, encapsulated in the motto “Chhote Kadam Badi Soch”. This guiding principle has inspired targeted initiatives 
by the company in the areas of Health and Nutrition, Education, Skill Development, Environment, and other charitable causes. 
These focus areas not only complement the government’s objectives but also align with the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals. Through its corporate citizenship programs, Havells has been making a positive impact on communities 
throughout India, providing access to food and nutrition, hygiene, education, and livelihood opportunities for underprivileged 
children, youth and families.
PRINCIPLE 5 
Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the 
entity, in the following format: 
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. of employees / 
workers covered (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. of employees / 
workers covered (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Permanent 
7,117
7,117
100.00%
6,712
6,712
100%
Other than permanent
9,114
9,114
100.00%
8,293
8,293
100%
Total
16,231
16,231
100.00%
15,005
15,005
100%
Workers
Permanent 
415
415
100.00%
441
441
100%
Other than permanent
19,737
19,737
100.00%
17,151
17,151
100%
Total
20,152
20,152
100.00%
17,592
17,592
100%
Havells India Limited has implemented a Code of Conduct (COC) and a Human Rights Policy to safeguard the rights of its 
employees and ensure appropriate working conditions. Regular awareness sessions are conducted on the COC, which 
include induction training, annual declaration, and other discussion platforms. To further support this effort, the company 
has launched the Havells Gurukul Digivarsity portal for training on human rights and other related topics in the FY 2024-25.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
143
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D) 
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees 
Permanent
7,117
-
-
7,117
100.00%
6,712
-
-
6,712
100.00%
Male
6,662
-
-
6,662
100.00%
6,347
-
-
6,347
100.00%
Female
455
-
-
455
100.00%
365
-
-
365
100.00%
Other Than 
Permanent
9,114
-
-
9,114
100.00%
8,293
-
-
8,293
100.00%
Male
8,016
-
-
8,016
100.00%
7,255
-
-
7,255
100.00%
Female
1,098
-
-
1,098
100.00%
1,038
-
-
1,038
100.00%
Workers
Permanent 
415
-
-
415
100.00%
441
-
-
441
100.00%
Male
395
-
-
395
100.00%
411
-
-
411
100.00%
Female
20
-
-
20
100.00%
30
-
-
30
100.00%
Other Than 
Permanent
19,737
-
-
19,737
100.00%
17,151
-
-
17,151
100.00%
Male
15,982
-
-
15,982
100.00%
14,335
-
-
14,335
100.00%
Female
3,755
-
-
3,755
100.00%
2,816
-
-
2,816
100.00%
Our organization upholds the compliance with the Minimum Wage Act and ensures that both on-roll workers and contractual 
workers are paid accordingly. In addition to this, we have initiated programs that recognize and reward workers for their good 
efforts. Through these special components and benefits, we provide additional compensation to deserving employees. It is 
important to note that our employees are paid as per industry standards, and they do not fall in the category of hourly wages.
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format
	
a.	
Median remuneration / wages: 
 
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category*
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category*
Board of Directors (BoD)
4
` 17,52,38,402
-
-
Key Managerial Personnel
5
` 16,40,79,115
-
-
Employees other than BoD and KMP
6,662
` 13,45,509
455
` 10,80,009
Workers
395
` 3,34,265
20
` 2,65,356
	
	
*Annual Median Salary/Remuneration
	
	
Note: We have 4 Executive Directors who are paid compensation. We have 9 Independent Directors (including 1 Female) who are paid 
sitting fees and annual commission
	
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages*
7.26%
3.74 %
	
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of 
the external agency. 
	
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024-25 
indicators in the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 359
	
	
*For the purpose of calculation of gross wages paid to females, expenses such as NPS contribution, performance incentive, LTRI, 
EOP expenses, recruitment/training expenses, provision for bonus have been distributed in the ratio of salary as per the pay register 
between male and female employees/workers.
	
As per the industry standards released by SEBI, in addition to the permanent employees, salaries to other than permanent 
employees/workers are also to be considered. We have included the payments to contractors on account of contractual 
employees and workers in the current year 2024-25. Hence the numbers are not comparable to last year’s number to that 
extent.
Havells India Limited
144
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, the management committee over sees the HR function covering the afore mentioned aspects.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
Havells is strongly committed to preventing any violation of human rights. To ensure compliance with our policy, we have 
implemented a mechanism monitored regularly by an internal committee within the HR department. Both the HR departments 
at plants and the HO conduct regular human rights risk assessments. All stakeholders have 24x7 access to report any 
breaches of the Human Rights Policy anonymously through the Vigilance and ‘Satark’ mechanism, which provides complete 
anonymity. 
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Complaint Type 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
2
-
-
-
-
-
Discrimination at workplace
-
-
-
-
-
-
Child Labour
-
-
-
-
-
-
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
-
-
-
-
-
-
Wages
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other human rights related issues
-
-
-
-
-
-
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013, in the following format: 
Complaint Type
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
2
-
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
0.04%
-
Complaints on POSH upheld
2
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency. 
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024-25 indicators 
in the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 359. 
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases. 
	
Havells is dedicated to fostering an organizational culture that upholds a commitment to supporting the internationally 
recognized human rights outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Furthermore, we strive to avoid any 
involvement in human rights violations. Our Whistleblower policy provides clear guidelines to prevent any negative 
consequences for individuals who come forward with complaints. We ensure that complainants have the right to remain 
completely anonymous, unless mandated by law enforcement agencies. Our Whistleblower Policy can be accessed from 
https://havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-relation/codes-and-policies.html#gref
	
The organization strictly prohibits any form of retaliation against complainants, including threats of physical harm, termination 
of employment, punitive work assignments, or adverse effects on salary or wages. If a complainant believes they have 
experienced retaliation, they have the option to submit a written complaint to the chairman of the Audit committee.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, our dedication lies in fostering an organizational environment that firmly embraces universally acknowledged human 
rights. Furthermore, we ensure the promotion of social welfare and the cultivation of a human rights-oriented culture through 
contractual obligations and a Supplier Code of Conduct. Our company’s directive on human rights is meticulously adhered to, 
and we conduct informative sessions on a regular basis to enhance awareness in this regard. Additionally, our manufacturing 
sites undergo periodic human rights assessments, with various department heads assuming responsibility for different facets 
of human rights.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
145
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
10.	 Assessments for the year:
 
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by 
entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
100% of our plant sites were assessed by the company
Forced/involuntary labour
100% of our plant sites were assessed by the company
Sexual harassment
100% of our plant sites were assessed by the company
Discrimination at workplace 
100% of our plant sites were assessed by the company
Wages
100% of our plant sites were assessed by the company
Others – please specify
-
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 9 above. 
	
An important observation from the assessment highlighted the lack of understanding of the law among the workers, 
contractors, and subcontractors. In the FY 2024-25, we have introduced more comprehensive awareness sessions for 
contractual workers and suppliers on relevant topics.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints. 
	
Havells is committed to preventing any human rights violations and ensures compliance with its policy through a mechanism 
implemented by the HR department. This mechanism is regularly monitored by the Audit Committee at the board level. The 
HR departments at the plants and Head Office conduct regular human rights risk assessments and generate monthly reports. 
These reports are shared with the Audit Committee on a half-yearly basis. All stakeholders have secure and 24/7 access to 
report any breaches anonymously through the Vigilance and the ‘Satark’ mechanism, which provides complete anonymity. 
For more information, please refer to our Human Rights Policy: https://www.havells.com/HavellsProductImages/HavellsIndia/
pdf/About-Havells/Investor-Relations/Codes_Policies/Human_Rights_Policy.pdf
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted. 
	
100% scope and coverage has been conducted for all value chain partners.
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
	
The facilities at Havells are specifically designed to ensure easy access for visitors with disabilities. Ramps for smooth 
movement, dedicated washrooms, and specially designated parking spaces for differently abled individuals have been 
incorporated into all our offices to enhance usability and accessibility.
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
Sexual Harassment
100.00%
Discrimination at workplace
100.00%
Child Labour
100.00%
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
100.00%
Wages
100.00%
Others – please specify
-
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 4 above. 
	
NIL
Havells India Limited
146
PRINCIPLE 6 
Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format: 
	
Havells is committed to collectively and positively addressing climate change. Through various initiatives, including renewable 
energy utilization and deployment of energy saving projects, the Company continuously endeavors to reduce its CO2 
emissions. One of our initiatives was increasing our electricity consumption from renewable source. In this Financial Year, we 
scaled our solar capacity to 15.60 MW. Our renewable energy consumption has increased by ~36% in FY 2024-25 over FY 
2023-24 demonstrating our focus on renewable energy.
	
It may be noted that we have sold 664.07 GJ of Solar back to the Grid using net metering.
	
Furthermore, percentage of energy consumed through renewable sources is 7.45% in FY 2024-25 as compared to 6.17% in 
FY 2023-24.
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
From renewable sources^
Total electricity consumption (A) GJ
54,434.44
40,075.88
Total fuel consumption (B) GJ
53.03
97.41
Energy consumption through other sources (C) GJ
-
-
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C) GJ
54,487.47
40,173.29
From non-renewable sources^
-
-
Total electricity consumption (D) GJ
4,90,564.68
4,35,226.38
Total fuel consumption (E) GJ
1,86,185.55
1,75,789.37
Energy consumption through other sources (F) GJ
-
-
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources(D+E+F) GJ
6,76,750.23
6,11,015.75
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F) GJ**
7,31,237.69
6,51,189.04
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumed / Revenue from 
operations)
33.63
35.10
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)*
694.73
803.20
Energy intensity in terms of physical output (crore units)#
24,562.91
23,817.14
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
 
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency. 
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024-25 indicators 
in the table above other than Energy Intensity per crore rupees of turnover (total energy consumed/ revenue from operations). Please find the 
assurance statement on page 359
	
* For the purpose of calculation of revenue adjusted Purchasing power parity (PPP), conversion factor @20.66 `/USD as per IMF has been 
considered for FY 2024-25 (Source: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC) has been considered.
	
# For the purpose of Output of Products, number of units of various products manufactured by Havells have been considered. For calculation 
of number of units with respect to power cables and flexible cables, the conversion factor of one drum equivalent to one unit and 90 metres 
equivalent to one unit have been considered for power cables and flexible cables respectively.
	
**Total Energy consumed for certain leased branches and warehouses, and leased equipment (being forklifts and hydra cranes) have 
been estimated by calculating the actual per unit energy consumed in other leased branches and warehouses, and equipments which 
were multiplied with sitting capacity, areas under lease, and actual lease hours in case of leased branches, leased warehouses,and leased 
equipment respectively, in the absence of actual data for these locations/sources. The Company is in the process of putting in place a 
mechanism to capture the actual numbers of all these locations/sources in the upcoming year.
	
^Types of Renewable and Non- Renewable sources : 
	
Renewable – Solar and Bio-Gas, Non-Renewable – Grid Electricity, Diesel, Petrol, LPG, PNG
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
147
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set 
under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial 
action taken, if any.
	
No, we don’t fall under PAT scheme of Government of India.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format: 
	
At Havells, water availability and quality are pivotal for smooth operations and sustainable progress. Water management is a 
key material issue for the Company, especially in water stressed areas, with water related issues leading to strict regulatory 
actions and directly impacting our production capacities. Cognizant of depleting groundwater levels in the areas where 
we operate and committed to reduce our groundwater consumption every year, we are taking responsible action towards 
optimizing water usage, minimizing wastage, exploring alternatives, and collaborating with stakeholders, essential aspects 
to ensure operational continuity while maintaining our social license. Therefore, we prioritize maintaining a water balance and 
ensuring responsible water usage, as demonstrated by our specific water consumption metric. 
	
In FY 2024-25 in-spite of increase in revenue and production over FY 2023-24, our water consumption has reduced 
by 5% due to our various water saving initiatives such as installing water saving fixtures, practicing water conservation 
habits, reusing greywater, maximization of the usage of STP water in horticulture, etc. Also, our water intensity has reduced 
by ~19%.
	
Please find below the trend for the last two years.
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i) 	
Surface water
-
-
(ii) 	 Groundwater
1,85,649.38
2,26,936.50
(iii) 	 Third party water
1,19,584.71
1,09,699.62
(iv) 	 Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v) 	 Others (Treated Water)
10,375.00
7,400.00
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
3,15,609.09
3,44,036.12
Total volume of water consumption** (in kilolitres)
2,69,294.65
2,83,053.04
Water intensity per crore rupee of turnover
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations)
12.38
15.26
Water intensity per crore rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)*
255.85
349.13
Water intensity in terms of physical output (crore units)#
9,045.84
10,353.07
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency. 
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the Total volume of water 
consumption, Water intensity per crore rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) and Water intensity in terms of physical 
output (crore units) for the FY 2024-25 indicators in the table above. Please find the assurance statement on page 359.
	
* For the purpose of calculation of revenue adjusted Purchasing power parity (PPP), conversion factor @20.66 `/USD as per IMF has been 
considered for FY 2024-25 (Source: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC) has been considered.
	
# For the purpose of Output of Products, number of units of various products manufactured by Havells have been considered. For calculation 
of number of units with respect to power cables and flexible cables, the conversion factor of one drum equivalent to one unit and 90 metres 
equivalent to one unit have been considered for power cables and flexible cables respectively.
	
**Water consumption and discharge quantity for certain leased branches and warehouses have been estimated based on actual per unit 
consumption and discharge reported in other leased branches and warehouses which are multiplied with sitting capacity, their area under 
lease in case of leased branches and leased warehouses respectively, in the absence of actual data for these locations. We are in the 
process of putting a mechanism to capture the actual numbers of all these locations/sources in the upcoming year. Further the untreated 
water discharged for these locations are considered as 80% of the water withdrawal from source based on CPCB database report dated 
24th December, 2009.
Havells India Limited
148
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
	
Our total water discharged has reduced by 24.05% in FY 2025 over FY 2024.
	
Treated water discharged to surface was reduced by 52.38% in FY 2024-25 over FY 2023-2024. This was on account of 
closure of the Faridabad Plant operations in Q3 FY 2025. 
	
Out of the total untreated water, sent to third parties, water amounting to 21,167 kl pertained to Sricity Plant. This was 
reduced by 33% in FY 2024-25 over FY 2023-24 due to various initiatives taken by the Plant. Consumption of fresh water 
was reduced by 33% in FY 2024-25 on account of initiatives such as using treated water for production process, solar 
cleaning and gardening at Sricity Plant.
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	
To Surface water
	
- No treatment
21,113.44
21,183.08 
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
3,862.00 
8,110.00 
(ii)	
To Groundwater
 
	
- No treatment
 -
- 
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
- 
 -
(iii)	
To Seawater
 
	
- No treatment
- 
- 
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
- 
- 
(iv)	 Sent to third-parties
 
	
- No treatment
21,339.00
31,690.00 
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
- 
- 
(v) 	 Others
	
- No treatment
- 
 -
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
- 
- 
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
46,314.44
60,983.08 
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency.
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024-25 indicators 
in the table above.
 	
Please find the assurance statement on page 359
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquidation Discharge? If yes, provide details of its 
coverage and implementation
	
Havells has a Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) facility with a capacity of 43 Kiloliters Per Day at our Air Conditioners plant in Sri 
City, Tamil Nadu. We are currently in the process of carrying out feasibility assessment of ZLD in all of our manufacturing 
facilities. We strictly adhere to all relevant guidelines and standards mandated by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) 
and State Pollution Control Boards (SPCB) to maintain STP and ETP standards.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format: 
	
Our emissions of NOx and SOx is from using fossil fuels, especially diesel, in our production technique and genset. 
Although our emissions are presently minimum and inside our limits, we’re dedicated to improving our environmental 
performance. To obtain this goal, we’re thinking about diverse techniques inclusive of changing diesel gensets with 
cleanser gasoline alternatives, enforcing extra filtration structures at our emission stores to seize pollutants, and 
transitioning to using PNG wherein authorities’ infrastructure is available. Additionally, we also are exploring the choice 
of securing a dependable power deliver with minimum electricity interruptions and cargo dropping to lessen the reliance 
on gensets. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
149
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
Parameter
Please specify Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
NOx
Metric Tons
24.85
8.45
SOx
Metric Tons
5.08
0.25
Particulate matter (PM)
-
For reporting of air emission we only track NOx and SOx. 
We also conduct third-party laboratory testing for all air 
emission parameters, such as Nox and Sox, at our Eleven 
locations which includes all our Plants, Corporate office and 
CRI according to a specified schedule to ensure compliance 
with permissible limits. These tests complement our internal 
monitoring systems. Furthermore, we submit the test reports 
to the relevant regulatory authorities and pollution control 
boards.
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
Others – please specify
-
	
From FY 2024-25 onwards, we have calculated SOx and NOx basis actual data of Diesel, LPG and PNG at our manufacturing locations. In 
FY 2023-24 the calculations were based on third party laboratory testing.
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following 
format: 
	
Company is committed to taking steps to collectively and positively address climate change. Havells through various initiatives, 
including renewable energy utilisation, deployment of energy‑saving projects, substitution of diesel fuel requirement with PNG 
etc. to reduce the CO2 emissions. Emission intensity has reduced by 18.4% in FY 2024-25 over FY 2023-24. We have also 
reduced our per tonne GHG emission by 4.54% as compared to FY 2023-24 with a significant reduction in Scope 1 emission 
by ~32% as compared to FY 2023-24.
	
We achieved reduction in Scope 1 emissions, primarily driven by the upgrade to energy-efficient equipment and enhancement 
of our internal systems for monitoring, calculating, and reporting emissions related to refrigerant losses during production.
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)**
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
40,661.15
59,517.30
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)**
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
99,068.34
86,561.69
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per 
crore rupee of turnover (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions / Revenue from operations)
6.43
7.87
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per crore 
rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / 
Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)*
132.75
180.18
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms 
of physical output (crore units)# 
4,693.66
5,342.82
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) 
– the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency.
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024-25 indicators 
in the table above other than total Scope 1 + Scope 2 emission intensity per crore rupee of turnover. Please find the assurance statement 
on page 359
	
We have considered DEFRA version 1.1 dated 8th July, 2024, as a base for the emission factor.
	
* For the purpose of calculation of revenue adjusted Purchasing power parity (PPP), conversion factor @20.66 `/USD as per IMF has been 
considered for FY 2024-25 (Source: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC) has been considered.
	
# For the purpose of Output of Products, a number of units of various products manufactured by Havells have been considered. For 
calculation of number of units with respect to power cables and flexible cables, the conversion factor of one drum equivalent to one unit and 
90 metres equivalent to one unit have been considered for power cables and flexible cables respectively.
	
**Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission numbers for certain leased branches and warehouses, and leased equipment (being forklifts and hydra 
cranes) have been estimated by calculating the actual per unit emissions reported in other leased branches and warehouses and equipments 
which were multiplied with sitting capacity, areas under lease and actual lease hours in case of leased branches, leased warehouses 
and leased equipment respectively, in the absence of actual data for these locations/sources. We are in the process of putting in place a 
mechanism to capture the actual numbers of all these locations/sources in the upcoming year.
Havells India Limited
150
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details. 
	
Havells endeavors to contribute to positive climate change. Through various initiatives, including renewable energy utilization, 
deployment of energy saving projects, tree plantations, and implementation of Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR), 
the Company continuously endeavors to reduce its CO2 emissions. In FY 2024-25, we have significantly reduced our per 
tonne GHG emission by 4.54%  as compared to FY 2023-24. In FY 2024-25, we successfully completed 60+ energy-saving 
projects, leading to a total energy savings of 4,309  MWh and CO2 mitigation to the tune of 3,133 TCO2e. The projects 
included optimizing air compressor pressure, replacing old machines with energy saving machines, installing motor sensors 
in rooms, installing VFD on induction motors, replacing conventional heaters in machines with induction heaters, reducing 
compressed air leakage etc. In this Financial year, we installed 4.4 MW solar power plants at our Alwar and Sricity facility, 
scaling up our total solar power capacity to 15.6 MW. With this, we are now equipped to meet 10% of our total electricity 
requirement through renewable energy sources and have achieved a significant 10,992 tCO2e emissions reduction in FY 
2024-25. The total energy consumption from renewable sources during the same period has increased by 36%, as compared 
to the previous financial year. Havells endeavours to contribute to positive climate change through various initiatives, including 
renewable energy utilisation, deployment of energy‑saving projects, and tree plantations. 
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format: 
	
Being a manufacturing company, proper waste handling and disposal, which are crucial to protecting the environment 
and ensuring environmental safety is a priority at Havells. To ensure safe disposal of hazardous waste, we collaborate with 
vendors who are approved and authorized by the Central Pollution Control Board and State Pollution Control Boards. We 
have reduced the total waste generated by 20.57% in FY 2024-25 over FY 2023-24. 
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
2,298.52
1,947.52
E-waste (B)
376.28
604.29
Bio-medical waste (C)
0.03
0.04
Construction and demolition waste (D)**
13,920.79
26,875.97
Battery waste (E)
79.54
76.54
Radioactive waste (F)
-
-
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
801.23
821.95
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
25,385.15
23,631.99
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
42,861.54
53,958.30
Waste intensity per crore rupee of turnover
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations)
1.97
2.91
Waste intensity per crore rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP)* (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)*.
40.72
66.55
Waste intensity in terms of physical output (Crore units)# 
1,439.76
1,973.52
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through 
recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 	
Recycled
28,396.09
26,500.73
(ii) 	
Re-used
14,246.88
3,682.11
(iii) 	 Other recovery operations
218.54
349.43
Total
42,861.51
30,532.27
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of 
disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 	
Incineration
0.03
4.18
(ii) 	
Landfilling
-
2.68
(iii) 	 Other disposal operations
-
23,419.17
Total
0.03
23,426.03
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency.
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024-25 indicators in 
the table above other than waste intensity per crore of rupees. Please find the assurance statement on page 359
	
* For the purpose of calculation of revenue adjusted Purchasing power parity (PPP), conversion factor @20.66 `/USD as per IMF has been 
considered for FY 2024-25 (Source: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC) has been considered.
	
# For the purpose of Output of Products, a number of units of various products manufactured by Havells have been considered. For 
calculation of number of units with respect to power cables and flexible cables, the conversion factor of one drum equivalent to one unit and 
90 metres equivalent to one unit have been considered for power cables and flexible cables respectively.
	
** Waste is accounted for at the time of disposal and therefore waste recovered and disposed has been considered as waste generated.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
151
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes 
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
Please refer to Natural capital section of the IAR pages 89 and 91 for detailed description of our waste management practices.
11.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) 
where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
	
No, we do not have any office or plant location around ecologically sensitive areas.
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year: 
	
Not applicable
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the 
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment 
Protection Act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following 
format: 
	
No material fines were paid in Financial Year 2024-25.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres): 
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i)	
Name of the Area : Sahibabad, Faridabad, Alwar, Neemrana, Ghiloth, Tumakuru, Noida
	
(ii)	
Name of operations : Manufacturing location and Head Office & Plant
	
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) 	
Surface water
(ii) 	 Groundwater
97,270.87
1,81,883.08
(iii) 	 Third party water
78,386.83
49,394.76
(iv) 	 Seawater / desalinated water
(v) 	 Others
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres
1,75,657.70
2,31,277.84
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
1,62,301.57
2,18,539.84
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
7.46
11.78
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the Entity
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
-
(i)	
Into Surface water
-
-
	
- No treatment
21,113.45
4,628.00
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
3,862
8,110
(ii) 	 Into Groundwater
-
-
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iii) 	 Into Seawater
-
-
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
-
-
(iv) 	 Sent to third-parties
-
-
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
-
-
(v) 	 Others
-
-
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
-
-
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
24,975.44
12,738.00
Havells India Limited
152
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
	
We have Initiated the inventorization of Scope 3 emissions within our organization by doing so we are expanding the scope 
of our reporting boundary and will start reporting it from FY 26. We are proactively addressing the broader impact of our 
operations beyond our direct control. By increasing the scope of our reporting boundary, we aim to capture a more complete 
picture of our environmental footprint and identify areas where we can reduce them. This initiative is a part of our Net-Zero 
journey. 
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, 
provide details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with 
prevention and remediation activities.
	
We at Havells ensure that none of its business activities have a negative or irreversible impact on biodiversity. All our operational 
sites are not located in or near areas of high biodiversity value or protected areas.
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide 
details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format: 
S.  
No.
Initiative Undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, 
may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1.
Carbon Emission Reduction 
using light weight material
•	 In Lloyd AC, there was weight reduction of 
sheet metal steel by ~15% (8,90,084.5kg) & 
material saving 
•	 72,600 KG powder paint reduced in painting 
resulting into material saving & energy saving.
Resource reduction by 15% 
(22,25,211 CO2 eq)
2.
Resource Reduction
In Lloyd AC, 3,50,498 kg Copper weight 
reduced
Copper resource consumption 
reduced by 3,50,498 kg
3
Entrack Energy auditor 
Device
An intelligent & smart device for measuring & 
monitoring energy consumption of individual 
appliances
Monitoring & measuring energy 
consumption of home.
4
Vita D Range (health & 
Hygiene product)
A much need consumer need is met by lighting 
technology that seamlessly combines general 
illumination with UVB exposure. Designed to 
support a healthier lifestyle, these luminaires 
provide both functional lighting and vitamin D 
synthesis benefits, making them a must-have 
for modern living.
Vit D deficiency to be compensated 
by use of a perfect blend of 
ambient lighting and controlled UVB 
exposure, Vita D light Essential 
is designed for offices, homes, 
and indoor spaces where natural 
sunlight is limited.
5
Use of renewable/ Bio 
content in packaging
100% packaging is made of using renewable 
and bio based material resulting into low 
carbon foot print and compostable packaging
Being renewable & bio base 
packaging, it is reducing carbon 
foot print & waste generation after 
disposal
6
Plastic Weight reduction 
(EPS and Polybags)
Design Optimization of EPS and implementing 
returnable solution for Incoming material. 
Overall, 21,000 kg of Plastic 
reduced
7
Existing packaging laminate 
optimization 
Reduction of laminate thickness to achieve 
significant reduction in plastic consumption.
Achieved reduction of 69,000 Kg of 
plastic.
8
Reduction of Plastics in 
Packaging
Optimization of Polybags and replacement of 
EPS with Molded pulp trays
The overall reduction achieved with 
these initiatives is 47,000 Kg.
9
Reduction of Plastics in 
Packaging
Reduction of polybags used in packaging for 
Lighting category products.
Achieved reduction of 30,400 Kg of 
plastic.
10
EPS Removal
Replacement of EPS with Paper based inserts.
Overall, 19,000 kg of Plastic 
reduced.
11
EPS Replacement
Replacement of EPS with Molded pulp trays
Achieved reduction of 36,000 Kg of 
plastic.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
153
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web 
link.
	
Havells’ IT Continuity Policy ensures the uninterrupted provision of its IT services and aims to achieve the following objectives:
	
a. 	
Ensuring the business contingency of critical IT processes and allocating appropriate resources for this purpose.
	
b. 	 Providing training to IT personnel on effectively managing disaster recovery scenarios.
 	
c. 	
Informing all stakeholders about the organization’s ability to maintain IT operations in the event of a disaster.
	
We have also obtained ISO 27001:2022 certification for our Information Security Management System (ISMS) for the 
continual improvement, development, and protection of information assets and sensitive data. This certification validates 
our implementation of appropriate risk assessments, policies, and controls. Additionally, we regularly conduct cybersecurity 
awareness training sessions for our employees and have established a clear escalation process to report any suspicious 
activities.
	
Furthermore, our business continuity and contingency plans, along with our incident response procedures, undergo periodic 
testing to enhance the resilience of our digital infrastructure. The risk management committee oversees the management and 
strategy of our Information Technology function, ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of computer systems, 
networks, and data by safeguarding against cyber-attacks and unauthorized access.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard. 
	
NA
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts.
	
100%
 
Havells India Limited
154
PRINCIPLE 7 
Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and 
transparent.
Essential Indicators
1.	
(a) 	 Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations 
	
	
18
	
(b) 	 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of 
such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. 
No Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry 
chambers/ associations (State/
National)
1
Electric Lamp and Component Manufacturers Association of India
National
2
Indian Fan Manufacturers Association
National
3
The Associated Chamber of Commerce and Industry of India
National
4
Consumer Electronics and Appliances Manufactures Association
National
5
Indian Electrical and Electronics MFRS' Association
National
6
PHD Chambers of Commerce and Industry
National
7
Confederation of Indian Industry
National
8
National Safety Council
National
9
Water Quality Association
National
10
Refrigeration and Airconditioning Manufacturers Association
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by 
the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
	
There were no legal actions against the entity for issues related to anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly 
practices.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity: 
S. 
No.
Public Policy advocated
Method resorted for such 
advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in public 
domain yes/no
Frequency of 
review by board 
( annually/half 
yearly/quarterly/
other)
Weblink
1
The company has promoted 
the implementation of 
environmental standards 
related to its supply in matters 
related to the management of 
electronic waste, plastic waste 
and battery waste, renewable 
energy, business ethics and 
competence development. The 
company constantly strives to 
increase its impact on certain 
sustainable business activities.
The company actively 
participates in the activities 
of trade and industry 
associations to share 
comments on related 
topics, as in the adjacent 
box. In addition, whenever 
government requests 
feedback from industry, 
the company provides 
feedback through industry 
associations.
This is part of 
Stakeholder 
consultation by the 
respective Industry 
Associations.	
Reviewed by 
relevant business 
management 
on as and when 
basis 
Not 
applicable 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
155
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
PRINCIPLE 8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
Essential Indicators 
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year. 
	
Not Applicable.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being 
undertaken by your entity, in the following format: 
	
Not Applicable.
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community. 
	
Havells has established multiple modes of communication for the community to raise their concerns and express their needs 
and requirements. For more information regarding our CSR activities and community interactions, please refer to the Social 
Capital section in the IAR on page 74.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers: 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
19.24%
12.17%
Directly from within India
84.82%
83.05%
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency.
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024-25 indicators in 
the table above. Please find the assurance statement on page 359
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total 
wage cost 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Rural
20.78%
20.27%
Semi-Urban
-
-
Urban
58.66%
60.53%
Metropolitan
20.56%
19.20%
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency.
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024-25 indicators in 
the table above. Please find the assurance statement on page 359
	
For the purpose of categorisation of people employed at locations into Rural / Semi-Urban / Urban / Metropolitan the following mechanism 
has been adopted along with RBI Classification System:
	
(a)	
Metropolitan cities considered are the nine cities, namely Mumbai, Pune, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Surat, Chennai, Kolkata, Bangalore, and 
Hyderabad.
	
(b) 	
All manufacturing locations (Plants) are mapped basis their respective actual addresses.
	
(c) 	
All branch office and in-shop demonstrator employees are mapped as metropolitan or urban, as the case may be, as all these locations 
are in major cities
Havells India Limited
156
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above): 
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
Not applicable as per Question 1 in Essential indicators
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational 
districts as identified by government bodies: 
S. No. State 
Aspirational District
Amount Spent (` in lac)
1
Chhattisgarh
Mahasamund
6.42
2
Jharkhand
Bokaro 
10.71
3
Maharashtra
Osmanabad
5.67
4
Odisha
Dhenkanal
16.95
5
Rajasthan
Dholpur
2.32
6
Uttar Pradesh
Sonbhadra
0.71
7
Bihar
Purnia
3.21
3.	
(a) 	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
	
No
	
(b)	 From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure? 
	
	
Not applicable
	
(c) 	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? 
	
	
Not applicable
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity 
(in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge: 
S. No.
Intellectual Property 
based on traditional 
knowledge
Owned / Acquired 
(Yes / No)
Benefit Share  
(Yes / no)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
Havells do not own or acquired intellectual property based on traditional knowledge
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective actions taken
NA
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects
	
Refer to Annexure - 3 on page no. 113 of IAR.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
157
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
PRINCIPLE 9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback. 
Customer Care No.
08045771313
Grievance Escalation
grievance.officer@havells.com
Havells One Shop
WhatsApp Support
9711773333
Email-ID
customercare@havells.com
	
Havells believes in putting customers at the center of its value proposition. In order to ensure customers can easily reach us, 
we have established multiple lines of communications such as online service request, central helpline, WhatsApp support, 
App based interaction and email- id. We also monitor and receive customer feedback through social media such as Facebook 
and Twitter on real time basis. We have established a structured data management system and SLA to ensure every query 
is responded within a specified period of time. In case of escalation, a nominated grievance officer takes up the case and 
communicates with the customer on closure of the complaint. 
	
For post sales issues and service request, we have also launched Khushiyon Ki Guarantee (KKG) initiative. The KKG process 
starts off at the customer’s very first call to our service center. When the customer calls us for any service, it provides a 
KKG (Khushiyon Ki Guarantee) Number. On completion of the service, this number is provided to the service engineer. If the 
number is not provided, we will know that more effort has to be made to make the customer happy. Thereafter, our special 
KKG Cell at Head Office will take over and do every possible ways to satisfactorily close the service request. Thus, the loop 
on the interaction is closed.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry 
information about: 
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
46.61%
Safe and responsible usage
100%
Recycling and/or safe disposal
100%
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following: 
We have received NIL complaints in the aspects of Data privacy, Advertising, Cyber-security Restrictive Trade Practices and 
Unfair Trade Practices in FY2024~25. Our products and services do not fall under delivery of essential services. Most of 
our complaints are product performance-related queries. For more details on our customer interactions, please refer to our 
IAR on page 74.
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
There has been no instance of product recall on account of safety issues. Our product undergoes rigorous testing and 
quality assurance from safe usage and handling perspective. In addition, our product information such as manual, leaflet and 
product packaging carry instructions for safe usage.
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy. 
Yes, our organization has implemented an Enterprise Risk Management Policy that encompasses the identification and 
mitigation of risks related to Cyber threats and data protection/privacy. To ensure comprehensive risk management, our 
Company’s Integrated Risk Management Framework adheres to the globally recognized COSO (Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission) Framework. In addition to this, users are granted roles-based access rights, 
Havells India Limited
158
and we have implemented various cutting-edge solutions such as Data Leakage Protection (DLP), Advanced Email Threat 
Protection, Data and End Point Encryption, Privileged Identity Management (PIM), SIEM, among others. To further emphasize 
our commitment to data privacy, our company’s website prominently displays the Data Privacy Policy. For more details, 
please visit our website at: https://www.havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-relation/codes-and-policies.html.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery 
of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product 
recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services. 
Not Applicable. 
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches: Nil
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: NIL
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches: Not Applicable
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency.
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024-25 indicators as 
mentioned above. Please find the assurance statement on page 359
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide 
web link, if available). 
Information on Havells’ products and services can be accessed at www.havells.com 
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
We offer instructional guides along with our products and installation services to educate customers on how to use the 
products correctly and what precautions to take. The operation of our products and services is demonstrated in user manuals 
and videos accessible on the Havells website (www.havells.com). Additionally, we include QR codes for product information 
on select items, as well as do-it-yourself installation videos to enhance the overall product servicing experience.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services. 
Havells maintains continuous connect with its customers ensuring seamless operations through various touchpoints such as 
Havells Customer Care No. (08045771313), Email, WhatsApp, Havells Sync Mobile App.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local 
laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with 
regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations 
of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
Paying close attention to product information, labelling and consumer engagement by business is considered pivotal to 
Havells’ consumer satisfaction focus. We do provide consumers with manuals containing information about products and 
installation services to make them aware of the ‘do’s and ‘don’t’s of the product. 
Havells Digital Marketing team consistently monitors the Online Reputation Management (ORM), tracking and responding to 
real time feedback, posts and complaints, etc., across major online platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Linked-
in, etc. We examine more than 1mn+ customer comments every year and ensure that every query is responded within a 
stipulated timeframe.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
159
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION  
AND ANALYSIS
Overview & Outlook
The year gone by was marked by heightened global 
uncertainties, geopolitical tensions and fluctuating commodity 
prices. The overall trade environment continues to be evolving 
as multiple announcement around trade tariffs took place. On 
this backdrop, India continued to show resilience, supported 
by steady GDP growth. The Indian economy remains well 
placed with strong fundamentals, a young population and its 
rising position as a global services provider and an emerging 
manufacturing hub. However, inflation stayed elevated, 
impacting disposable incomes and consumer spendings. To 
support consumer sentiment and liquidity, measures were 
announced including income tax relief and monetary policy 
cuts. A good agricultural season supported rural markets. 
The year experienced a strong summer season, with extreme 
temperatures, positively contributing to the demand for cooling 
products, especially in lower-penetration categories, like air 
conditioners and air coolers. Over the last few years, real estate 
launches have seen strong growth, while the benefit of these 
launches is yet to be reflected in electricals and consumer 
durable segments. Infrastructure and industrial activity-led 
demand remained steady during the year.
Artificial intelligence (AI) and digital technologies continued to gain 
ground, opening new areas of application and differentiation. 
Product development and innovation was targeted towards 
consumer value, energy efficiency and smart features.
With presence in multiple product categories in electricals 
and consumer durables addressing consumers as well as 
businesses, Havells is well placed to create sustained value. 
Backed by strong in-house manufacturing, robust R&D setup 
and a wide distribution network, Havells continues to drive 
brand strength, product innovation and profitable growth.
Segment-wise overview including 
industry structure, developments and 
outlook
Switchgear
The Strategic Business Unit (SBU) comprises Building Circuit 
Protection (BCP) equipment, switches and automation 
solutions, also called Electrical Wiring Accessories (EWA) and 
industrial switchgear. Havells is a pioneer in understanding 
changing customer requirements and filling any vacuum with 
well thought through advanced products. We introduced Arc 
Fault Detection Device (AFDD), offered as a preventive measure 
against starting of electrical fires due to arc faults. Our AFDD is 
in accordance with IEC 62606: 2017.
We have also launched energy IoT-enabled energy monitoring 
devices called EnTrack (Energy Auditor), a personal home 
assistant device which monitors the energy consumption 
and analyses the same on a real time basis. EnTrack can 
Apogee Range
AFDD
Havells India Limited
160
provide the extract energy consumed by each appliance in the 
household, by using non-intrusive appliance load monitoring 
(NILM) technology.
In the industrial switchgear segment, Havells’ LV switchgear 
portfolio offers a complete range of circuit protection for the 
rapidly urbanizing Indian market. Havells continued to invest in 
R&D and introduced technology-driven power gear products, 
like the TRON range of circuit breakers (ACB and MCCB) 
for most common protection from 25kA to 100kA breaking 
capacities. Also, a new range of transfer switches (Insta-shift) 
was launched. This year we kicked off our efforts on solution 
offering with new range of IEC 61439 type tested enclosed 
solutions for general and commercial distrbution with our 
HiConn and HiPan panel offering.
In FY 2024-25, we made good headway with the new Adiva 
and Magnus switches ranges. These newly launched ranges 
have gained mainstream momentum and are contributing well 
to our growth. The wide variety of designs and the strong value 
proposition of both ranges has been widely appreciated by 
customers. In FY 2024-25, we also showcased our upcoming 
premium Apogee range which promises to be an ultra-premium 
collection of switches and plates for the luxury customer. The 
New Apogee range brings together a huge variety of Avant 
grade materials and finishes, never seen before in the Switches 
segment. From the Ethnic plates with heritage designs to the 
Satin collection with delicate inlays, the Apogee range truly 
embodies the “Pinnacle of Perfection” promise for the luxury 
customer. The new Apogee range will be taking us deeper into 
the Architectural segment with bespoke solutions for the luxury 
customer. This will further help enforce Havells Crabtree as a 
premium offering.
Havells developed customized SKUs specifically for Indian 
Railways, which will be installed in their premium trains like 
Vande Bharat. These SKUs were created in close consultation 
with Indian Railways, ensuring they meet the high standards of 
safety, efficiency, and reliability.
The Switchgear segment registered net revenues of ` 2,395 
crores during FY 2024-25, with contribution margins at 37.9%, 
compared with net revenues of ` 2,245 crores with contribution 
margins at 40.2% during FY 2023-24.
Cable
This Strategic Business Unit (SBU) comprises power cables and 
flexible cables. The segment witnessed steady growth during 
the year, supported by infrastructure expansion, rising private 
sector investments and improving renewable energy adoption. 
Increased spending on logistics and industrial corridors along 
with rapid electrification and revamping of the distribution 
sector fuelled demand for the segment. Additionally, the growth 
of the data centres, expansion of railways and metros, telecom 
and IT sectors contributed to the overall demand. 
To address capacity constraints, during the year, Havells 
commissioned its power cables & flexible cables plant in 
Tumakuru, Karnataka. We are also expanding capacity in 
a phased manner at the Alwar facility. Further, an additional 
investment of ` 450 crores for the next phase of expansion 
of the Tumakuru plant was announced primarily for higher 
sized cables. The production is expected to commence by 
September 2026. While strengthening our domestic presence 
and capacities, we also expanded in international markets and 
made in-roads in new continents.
Power Cables
Switch for Indian Railways
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
161
Integrated Report 
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion  
and Analysis
Financial Statements 
In flexible cables, the industry is witnessing a shift in class-5 
flexible cables in the trade market, catering to evolving 
customer preference for an economical range of products 
as well. Havells reinforced its positing in the market through 
continued expansion into semi-urban and rural markets via a 
multi-brand & GTM strategy.
Looking ahead, the sector is poised to leverage emerging 
trends such as digitization and government-led initiatives to 
sustain growth, albeit while navigating heightened commodity 
price volatility.
The 
cables 
division 
registered 
net 
revenues 
of 
` 7,184 crores during FY 2024-25 with contribution 
margins at 14.1% compared with net revenues of 
` 6,318 crores with contribution margins at 15.0% during 
FY 2023-24.
Lighting
Havells’ Lighting business comprises two business units (BUs) 
– consumer lighting and professional lighting. FY 2024-25 was 
a challenging year for the lighting industry as the overall market 
growth was impacted by macro factors, particularly continued 
LED price deflation. The consumer demand trends remained 
benign alongside some moderation in government capex-led 
project demand. However, Havells continued its sharp focus on 
product innovations and customer orientation, enabling strong 
resilience in a tough business environment. The innovation 
and manufacturing-led strategy helped Havells to not only 
deliver differentiated solutions, but also strengthened its value 
proposition across customer segments.
In Professional Lighting, with a segmented customer 
approach, Havells was able to build deep engagement with 
its customers, which helped in solving customer problems. 
For Industrial customers, Havells introduced high-performance 
Highbays, delivering 30% higher energy efficiency than the 
standard offering. Havells also launched a unique Highbay 
lighting solution for the tyre industry, which delivers reliable 
performance even in a phosphorous environment, while also 
saving 25% in energy.
For modern office workspaces, Havells launched a series 
of indoor architectural lighting solutions that are not just 
aesthetically impressive and but also helping customers comply 
with WELL standard requirements. With continued focus 
on Workspace Wellness, Havells launched a breakthrough 
product - Vita Dlight - which brings the goodness of sunlight 
right inside homes and office. Designed with special LEDs, the 
Vita Dlight Panels and Downlights deliver UVB rays alongside 
visual lighting. UVB rays present in the sunlight are responsible 
for production of Vitamin D in the human body.
Havells has built a strong capability in architectural façade 
lighting segment with inhouse capabilities in areas of lighting 
design, 3D simulations, design walk-throughs, speciality 
optics, customized product design and manufacturing. One of 
the prominent structures that Havells illuminated this year is the 
Naini Bridge. Located near the Triveni Sangam at Prayagraj, the 
dynamic lighting of the bridge has been accomplished by using 
high-performance narrow-beam floodlights and specialized 
linear fixtures that not only provide precise beams but are also 
customized to withstand high vibrations.
We executed many lighting projects across Public and Infra 
segments, like railways, metro, MES, municipal corporations, 
development authorities, public sector undertakings, etc. 
Havells has been a leading supplier of innovative light fixtures for 
canopy lighting of several petrol stations by powering hundreds 
of outlets. Our streetlight solutions with high-performance 
optics continue to deliver value in NHAI installations by 
increasing the ROI for contractors and continuing to be the 
brand of choice. 
Today’s consumers, embracing their own uniqueness, have a 
choice of designs that reflect their personalities and match their 
decor, whether at home or work. Lighting design plays a vital 
role in enhancing the living spaces. Havells consumer lighting 
business launched variety of products and categories focused 
towards emerging consumer trends and lifestyles. The product 
range under Home Art Lights’ thematic signature collections 
– Johari, Rangmanch, Aakriti and Aada got amplified offering 
more elegant choices to our consumers based upon choice of 
substrate, form factors, sustainability, etc.
Flexible Cables under brand Havells, REO & Standard
Havells India Limited
162
This year, we also launched our smart lighting range under the 
GenieLit brand, which offers seamless connectivity to the end-
users. This range is backed by BLE mesh technology ensuring 
higher scalability and is not dependent on WIFI. We also 
expanded our solar range in our Sunlit Series, offering more 
application-based options to the consumers. Our flagship 
decorative range of battens – Glamtubes, just got an upgrade 
with new variants inspired from the constellation and now offer 
more functionality to the end users. Addressing the growing 
demand in the ceiling category, we launched our exquisite 
range of COB spot lights – Crysta Deco in both surface and 
recessed.
The demand for premium lighting is on the rise. Havells Home 
Art Light is a one-stop shop for all things lighting – from basic 
to high-end, from minimalistic to opulent or ornate, as well as 
luxury lighting solutions. We have 50+ Home Art Light Brand 
stores with experiential zones that provide consumers an 
opportunity for the real light experience.
Influencers play a critical role in lighting design and strengthening 
our association further. This year, we have partnered with 
prominent influencing bodies to build a framework for 
systematic engagement with prominent architects, consultants 
and designers. Ensuring our omni presence approach, we also 
have ramped up our efforts to be accessible to consumers 
through alternate channels like MFR, e-commerce and quick 
commerce offering uniform experience online and offline.
The Lighting division registered net revenues of ` 1,653 
crores during FY 2024-25 with contribution margins at 32.6% 
compared with net revenues of ` 1,627 crores with contribution 
margins at 30.1% during FY 2023-24.
Electrical consumer durables (ECDs)
This SBU comprises fans, small domestic appliances and 
water heaters. Building on its differentiated product portfolio, 
aspirational brand positioning and wide channel reach, Havells 
performed well in the ECD categories and gained market 
shares. The year began positively with a strong summer 
season aiding the growth for cooling products, such as fans 
and air coolers. 
In fan category, we clearly witnessed consumer preference 
for premium offerings with superior technology, features and 
aesthetics. The industry continued to see significantly faster 
growth in BLDC fans. During the year, Havells further expanded 
its range of fans with several new launches in the BLDC and 
Super premium BLDC+ range. With exclusive technologies like 
“Smart Sense AI” and “Direct Voice command”, Havells delivered 
consumer’s comfort, convenience and well-being along with 
features like premium under-light and unique designs that add 
to the décor of the house. We also strengthened our channel 
presence across general trade and emerging channels, such as 
ecommerce. In addition to expanding Havells Galaxy’s exclusive 
stores network, we launched a new store format – Havells Fan 
Smart Hub with a focus on driving premiumisation in fans.
EPIC Pro BLDC+
EPIC Signia BLDC+
Elio Underlight loT BLDC+ 
Lighting Range
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
163
Integrated Report 
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion  
and Analysis
Financial Statements 
While the small domestic appliances industry continued to face 
challenges with lower consumer demand, Havells delivered 
a strong performance by focusing on strengthening of its 
core appliances portfolio and at the same time expanding 
into emerging categories. We have consistently launched 
new products, making inroads into high potential emerging 
categories, such as slow juicers, air fryers, garment steamers 
and air purifiers.
Driving product differentiation, Havells Nutrigrind Grinder, the 
world’s first dual stone grinder, provides the dual experience of 
dry as well as wet grinding. Use of natural stones helps retain 
the taste, texture and aroma of the grains.
During the year, we also entered into the large kitchen 
appliances segment, which comprises cooktops, hobs and 
chimneys. Our range of chimneys has been designed to offer 
a premium blend of aesthetics, durability, features and peace 
Foodo Mixer Grinder
Convertable Air Cooler
Rigel 90 Slant Dual Cavity 
Wall Mounted Chimney
Centuro Hob
Nutrigrind Grinder
of mind for modern kitchens. Addressing a common pain point 
of air coolers off season storage, we introduced an innovative 
Convertible Air Cooler which can be transformed into a table 
and back to a full-fledged 80L desert air cooler, without the 
need for any screws and tools. Prioritising end-consumer 
experience and communicating the unique modularity of the 
product, we also offered customers a free first-time demo and 
installation for the convertible air cooler. 
In line with our omni-channel strategy, Havells appliances 
further expanded into the quick commerce channel, meeting 
evolving consumer preferences. For the modern trade format, 
we are leveraging live demos and experiential selling to tap into 
the premium consumer set more effectively.
The electrical consumer durables (ECDs) division registered net 
revenues of ` 4,011 crores during FY 2024-25 with contribution 
margins at 23.8% compared with net revenues of ` 3,482 
crores with contribution margins at 23.5% during FY 2023-24.
Havells India Limited
164
Lloyd
The Lloyd brand offers products in the Air Conditioners, 
Washing Machines, Refrigerators and Televisions categories. 
The brand continued its accelerated journey with robust 
growth during the year, supported by strong summer demand, 
improving channel acceptability and increasing brand strength.
Lloyd has been consistently investing in advertising to enhance 
brand visibility and image. The brand continued to focus on 
premium advertising, featuring eminent celebrities such as 
Deepika Padukone, Ranveer Singh, Sourav Ganguly, Mahesh 
Babu, Tamannaah Bhatia and Mohanlal. To strengthen 
communication in the South, especially in Tamil Nadu, we 
partnered with Vijay Sethupathi during the year.
As part of its efforts to drive premiumisation, Lloyd introduced 
a new designer range of air conditioners under the ‘Luxuria’ 
collection, including Stunnair, Stellar, and Stylus models. These 
products combine modern design with the latest technologies 
and have been developed entirely in-house, reflecting the 
growing capabilities within the organisation.
The launch of Novante IoT-enabled washing machines and 
Kolor refrigerators is also in line with the brand’s premiumisation 
approach. Lloyd aims to build on its progress in air conditioners 
and extend the same to other categories, with the broader goal 
of becoming a full-range consumer durables brand.
Kolor Refrigerator
Novante IOT Fully 
Automatic  Top Load 
Washing Machine
Stunnair
Stellar Art
Stellar Duo
Stellar Grace
Stellar
Stylus
Over the years, Lloyd’s channel presence has continued to 
improve, with wider acceptance among trade partners. In a 
new initiative, Lloyd partnered with Blinkit to offer 10-minute 
delivery of air conditioners, tapping into the potential of quick 
commerce.
On the manufacturing front, the company commissioned 
new capacity for fully automatic top-load washing machines 
at its Ghiloth plant in Rajasthan. It also announced a planned 
investment of ` 480 crore to set up a refrigerator manufacturing 
facility, with a proposed capacity of 1.4 million units. The overall 
air conditioner capacity is also expanded from 2 million to 3 
million units across both plants combined.
This year we saw benefits from the cost-efficiency initiatives, 
which contributed to significant improvement in both 
contribution margin and segment profitability. Going forward, 
Lloyd remains focused on consistent growth, improving 
profitability, and uplifting the brand positioning in the consumer 
durables space.
The Lloyd consumer division registered net revenues of 
` 5,123 crores during FY 2024-25 with contribution margins 
at 13.5% compared with net revenues of ` 3,785 crores with 
contribution margins at 7.9% during FY 2023-24.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
165
Integrated Report 
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion  
and Analysis
Financial Statements 
Opportunities
A.	
Presence in growing and under-penetrated 
product categories: Electricals and consumer 
durables categories continue to provide strong growth 
opportunities on the back of under-penetration, 
increasing urbanisation and higher personal disposable 
income.
B.	
Increasing electrification: Enhanced electricity 
availability in semi-urban and rural areas and stability 
of electricity in urban areas is translating into higher 
demand for electrical and consumer durable products 
across the country.
C.	
Infrastructure expansion: The government’s continued 
thrust towards infrastructure building including highway 
construction, railway modernisation and airport additions 
is leading to a healthy demand for electrical goods such 
as power cables, professional lighting and industrial 
switchgears.
D.	
Favourable demographics: India’s population is among 
the youngest globally. With a median age of less than 
29 years and 67% of the population in the working age 
group of 15-64 years, this young demographic is likely to 
be aspirational and seek better lifestyles.
E.	
Exports: With geopolitical challenges and supply 
chain disruptions in particular regions, India continues 
to emerge as a lucrative player for exports. The 
government’s focus on domestic manufacturing with 
policies around Make in India and PLI, created India as 
a strong competitor to other Asian countries, unlocking 
export opportunities for the players.
F.	
Large product portfolio: Over the years, Havells has 
nurtured multiple categories in FMEG and consumer 
durables to position itself as a strong player to capitalise 
on opportunities across different segments. Equally, 
a bouquet of 6 consumer brands allows it to cater to 
multiple consumer segments across multiple price 
points. 
G.	
Premiumisation: Over the years, the demand for 
smart IoT products has increased with a focus on 
connected tech and ease of use. Consumers are looking 
for technologically-advanced appliances which also 
elevate their home décor, thus improving the market for 
innovative and premium products. 
H.	
Accelerated shift from unorganised to organised: 
Increasing formalisation and brand consciousness along 
with the emergence of unguided e-commerce journey 
of consumers, beneficial to the organised brands. 
Opportunity to move consumers from unorganised 
players to organised branded players.
Risk and Concerns
A.	
Economic slowdown: A reduction in GDP growth of the 
Indian economy, driven by global factors, may impede 
short-term growth prospects.
B.	
Commodity price fluctuations: Commodity price 
escalation could impact the cost of finished goods, 
potentially 
impacting 
affordability 
and 
consumer 
sentiment.
C.	
Competitive 
intensity: 
Heightened 
competitive 
dynamics, irrational market behaviour and any entry of 
disruptive players with access to low-cost capital, could 
lead to industry-wide value erosion.
D.	
Power disruptions: Any disruption in power distribution 
and electricity delivery may adversely affect the demand 
for electrical products.
E.	
Pandemic: Disruptions such as the Covid-19 pandemic 
pose significant risks to supply chains and demand 
dynamics, potentially disrupting business operations.
F.	
Geopolitical crisis: Increased volatility in commodity and 
foreign currency markets, stemming from geopolitical 
tensions in various global regions, may disrupt raw 
material availability and supply chains.
G.	
Global trade uncertainties: Any significant changes in 
the overall global trade environment can lead to volatility in 
commodity prices and/or impact the export opportunities 
Also, kindly refer to the section Risk Management of this 
Integrated Report.
Awards and Accolades
Havells received the following awards during the FY 2024-25:
	
EPDA Award to Care Connect, Home Gaze, Text Genie 
and Voice Sync
	
German Design Award 2025 to DMMI Dual Mode Inverter, 
Lloyd Stylus AC, Nimbus Ceiling Light, Stealth Neo Ceiling 
Fan, Zen Kitchen Appliance Series
	
India Design Mark 2024 to Dekor Lamp, Elio Ceiling Fan, 
Instashift Changeover, Nimbus Ceiling Light, Nutrigrind 
Wet and Dry Grinder, Slide AC Remote, Stellar AC
	
Design Intelligence Award (DIA) to Luxus Ceiling Exhaust 
Series and QTRON MCCB
	
CII Design Excellence Award to Nutrigrind Wet and Dry 
Grinder
	
DNA Paris Design Award to Home Gaze
	
IF Award to NatureIN
	
Red Dot Concept Design Award to Venessa Ceiling Fan
Havells India Limited
166
Key Ratios
Ratio
As at 
31 March 2025 
As at 
31 March, 2024 
Change 
 Explanation for change 
in the ratio by more than 
25% as compared to the 
previous year 
(a)	
Current Ratio (times) = Current assets/ 
Current liabilities
1.85
1.84
0.40%
Not Applicable 
(b)	
Debt-Equity Ratio (times) = Total 
Borrowings/ Shareholder's equity*
0.00
0.00
-
Not Applicable  
(Nil Borrowing) 
(c)	
Debt Service Coverage Ratio = Earnings 
available for debt service/ Debt service 
19.29
19.18
0.57%
Not Applicable 
(d)	
Return on Equity Ratio % = Net Profits 
after taxes/ Average shareholder's equity
18.88%
18.12%
0.76%
 Not Applicable 
(e)	
Inventory turnover ratio (times) = Revenue 
from operations/ Average inventory
5.86
5.21
12.50%
Not Applicable 
(f)	
Trade receivables turnover ratio (times)  = 
Net revenue from operations/ Average 
trade receivables
18.01
17.40
3.49%
 Not Applicable 
(g)	
Trade payables turnover ratio (times) = Net 
purchases/ Average trade payables
6.39
5.57
14.72%
Not Applicable 
(h)	
Net capital turnover ratio (times) = Revenue 
from operations/ Working capital
5.38
5.17
4.06%
Not Applicable 
(i)	
Net profit ratio % = Net profit/ Revenue 
from operations
6.86%
6.87%
-0.01%
Not Applicable 
(j)	
Return on capital employed % = EBIT/ 
Capital employed {refer note ii}
20.10%
19.33%
0.77%
Not Applicable 
(k)	
Return on investment % = EBIT/ Average 
total assets
13.36%
12.79%
0.57%
Not Applicable 
Notes:
(i) Debt service = Interest & Lease Payments + Principal Repayments
(ii) Capital Employed = Tangible Net Worth + Total Borrowings + Deferred Tax Liability
(iii) Tangible Net worth is computed as Total Assets - Total Liabilities.
*Borrowings does not includes Lease liabilities
Human Resources
Kindly refer to the section Human Capital of this Integrated Report page no. 44
Internal Control Mechanism
Kindly refer to the section Risk Management of this Integrated Report page no. 20
Disclaimer Clause
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report describing the Company’s objectives, projections, estimates 
and expectations may be ’forward-looking statements’ within the meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations. Actual 
results could differ materially from those expressed or implied. Important factors that could make a difference to the Company’s 
operations include economic conditions affecting demand/supply and price conditions in the domestic and overseas markets in 
which the Company operates, changes in the Government regulations, tax laws and other statutes and incidental factors.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
167
Integrated Report 
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion  
and Analysis
Financial Statements 
Report on Corporate Governance
In terms of Regulation 34(3) read with Section C of SCHEDULE V to the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 ("SEBI Listing Regulations"), as amended, a Report on Corporate Governance for the 
year ended 31st March, 2025 is presented below:
(1)	 A Brief Statement on Listed Entity’s Philosophy 
on Code of Governance
	
Who we are is defined by what we do and how 
we do 
This simple philosophy underlines our approach to 
Corporate Governance. So, if growth is our intention, 
how we achieve this growth is a part of our Corporate 
Governance. For us, Corporate Governance goes beyond 
philanthropy and compliance but actually deals with how 
we manage our triple bottom lines – economic, social and 
environmental. It monitors our role as well as the quality 
of our relationships in key spheres of influence including 
the workplace, the market place, the supply chain, the 
community and the public policy realm.
As a Company, we distinguish ourselves in the market 
by offering a portfolio of ecologically responsible electrical 
products and services that deliver powerful, sustainable 
and energy efficient solutions that do not compromise on 
capacity or security.
Our eco-friendly approach is evident in our efforts to 
develop an alternate energy strategy so as to reduce the 
environmental impact from our business. We are equally 
committed to managing a responsible supply chain in a 
manner that is consistent and compliant with our high 
standards for environment and business practices.
We recognise that there are barriers that constrain 
innovation, both, in individuals and communities and 
we work to overcome them. We build communities 
and promote the exchange of ideas through assistive 
technologies; participative programs and standardization 
that transforms the way people experience our products. 
Our energy efficient solutions enable people to save money 
and protect their capital investment while also lowering 
their energy usage and protecting the environment.
This contributes to our social responsibility of sustenance 
of depleting environmental resources.
	
Corporate Governance and Ethics
As a Company we have always worked on the side of 
ethics and have shunned expediency in any form. We 
believe that if something is important enough to be done, 
it is important that we do it ethically. We supplement our 
traditionally held values of ethical behaviour and moral 
conduct with explicit rules and regulations that guide our 
efforts in financial, propriety, customer care and business 
excellence.
	
We uphold the policy of “Leadership with trust” that has 
come to play a vital role in how our customers perceive us. 
This is important, given the climate of unparalleled public 
distrust of people in positions of power and authority in 
contemporary business and politics.
(2)	 Board of Directors
	
The Board of Directors has an optimum combination 
of Executive and Non-Executive Directors with an 
independent woman director while fifty per cent of the 
Board of Directors comprises of Independent Directors. 
The composition of the Board is in conformity with 
Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations read with 
Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act). The 
Chairperson of the Board is an Executive Director. The 
profiles of Directors can be accessed on the Company’s 
website 
at 
https://havells.com/corporate/about-us/
leadership-team
	
The Board meets at least 4 (Four) times a year and more often 
if Company needs merit additional oversight and guidance. 
During the financial year 2024-25, the time gap between any 
two board meetings did not exceed 120 (One Hundred and 
Twenty) days. None of the Directors on the Board hold the 
office of Director in more than 20 companies, including 10 
public companies, as disclosed under Section 184 of the Act 
read with Rules framed thereunder. None of the Independent 
Directors serve as Independent Director in more than 7 listed 
entities and none of the Independent Directors who are 
Whole-time Directors/ Managing Directors in a Listed Entity 
serves as Independent Director in more than 3 listed entities. 
Furthermore, none of the Whole-time Directors/ Managing 
Director of the Company serve as Independent Directors in 
any listed entities. In accordance with Regulation 26 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, none of the Directors is a member 
in more than 10 committees or acts as chairperson of more 
than 5 committees [the committees being, Audit Committee 
and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee] across all public 
limited companies in which he/ she is a Director. All Non 
Independent Directors are liable to retire by rotation.
	
The Board of Directors periodically reviews compliance 
reports pertaining to all laws applicable to the Company. 
All statutory and other matters of significance including 
information as mentioned in Part A of Schedule II to the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 are informed to the Board to enable it 
to discharge its responsibility of strategic supervision of 
the Company. 
Havells India Limited
168
	
Tenure of Independent Directors
	
The Board has adopted the provisions with respect 
to appointment and tenure of Independent Directors 
consistent with the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
SEBI Listing Regulations. As per the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013, the Independent Directors shall be 
appointed for not more than two terms of maximum of 
five years each and shall not be liable to retire by rotation. 
At the time of appointment of an Independent Director, 
the Company issues a formal letter of appointment 
outlining his/ her role, function, duties and responsibilities 
as a Director. The template of the letter of appointment is 
available on the Company's website.
	
Lead Independent Director
	
The Independent Directors of the Board have nominated 
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha as the Lead Independent 
Director of the Company. The role of the Lead Independent 
Director is to provide leadership to the Independent 
Directors, liaise on their behalf and ensure effective 
functioning of the Board.
(a)	 Composition and category of Directors (e.g. Promoter, Executive, Non-Executive, Independent Non-
Executive, Nominee Director - institution represented and whether as lender or as equity investor)
	
As at 31st March, 2025, the composition of the Board of Directors of the Company was as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Category
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
Promoters
Executive Chairman and Managing Director & CEO
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
3
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
Executive Whole-time Director
4
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Non-Promoters
Executive Whole-time Director & Group CFO 
5
Shri Siddhartha Pandit
Executive Whole-time Director
6
Shri T. V. Mohandas Pai
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
7
Shri Puneet Bhatia
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
8
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani
Independent Director
9
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha
Independent Director
10
Shri Subhash Sheoratan Mundra
Independent Director
11
Shri Bontha Prasada Rao
Independent Director
12
Shri Vivek Mehra
Independent Director
13
Smt. Namrata Kaul
Independent Director
14
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
Independent Director
(b)	 Attendance of each Director at the Meeting of the Board of Directors and the last Annual General Meeting
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Attendance in Board Meetings
AGM 28 Jun 24
30 Apr 24
18 Jul 24
17 Oct 24
16 Jan 25
19 Mar 25
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta






2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta






3
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta






4
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta






5
Shri T. V. Mohandas Pai






6
Shri Puneet Bhatia






7
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani






8
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha






9
Shri Siddhartha Pandit






10
Shri Subhash Sheoratan Mundra






11
Shri Bontha Prasada Rao






12
Shri Vivek Mehra






13
Smt. Namrata Kaul






14
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram






Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
169
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
(c)	 Number of other Board of Directors or Committees in which a Director is a member or chairperson as on 
31st March, 2025
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Directorships in 
Board of Directors*
Membership of 
Committees  
of Boards**
Chairmanship
of Committees  
of Boards**
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
3
1
0
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
3
1
0
3
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
3
0
0
4
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta
1
0
0
5
Shri T. V. Mohandas Pai
1
0
0
6
Shri Puneet Bhatia
5
0
0
7
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani
5
3
1
8
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha
7
7
3
9
Shri Siddhartha Pandit
1
0
0
10
Shri Subhash Sheoratan Mundra
4
3
3
11
Shri Bontha Prasada Rao
4
3
0
12
Shri Vivek Mehra
7
8
3
13
Smt. Namrata Kaul
5
8
5
14
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
6
2
1
	
*Directorships are reported for listed and unlisted public companies (including Havells India Limited) but excludes private limited companies, 
foreign companies, section 8 companies and alternate directorships.
	
**Committee Memberships/ Chairmanships are reported for listed and unlisted public companies put together (including Havells India Limited) 
in terms of Regulation 26(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. Committee Memberships 
include Chairmanship, if any. Committees considered for the purpose are those prescribed under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 viz. Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.
	
Names of the Listed entities where the person is a Director and the category of Directorship as on 
31st March, 2025
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Name of Listed Entity  
in which Director
Category of Directorship
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
Havells India Limited
Chairman and Managing Director & CEO
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
Havells India Limited
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director
3
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
Havells India Limited
Whole-time Director
4
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Havells India Limited
Whole-time Director and Group CFO 
5
Shri Siddhartha Pandit
Havells India Limited
Whole-time Director
6
Shri T. V. Mohandas Pai
Havells India Limited
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director
7
Shri Puneet Bhatia
Havells India Limited
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director
8
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
Greenlam Industries Limited
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director
9
Shri Upendra Kumar 
Sinha
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
Nippon Life India Asset Management Limited
Independent Director
SIS Limited
Independent Director
New Delhi Television Limited (NDTV)
Independent Director
Cube Highways Fund Advisors Private Limited Independent Director
Havells India Limited
170
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Name of Listed Entity  
in which Director
Category of Directorship
10.
Shri Subhash Sheoratan 
Mundra
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
Samman Capital Limited
Independent Director
11
Shri Bontha Prasada Rao
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
Poonawala Fincorp Limited
Independent Director
Titagarh Rail Systems Limited
Independent Director
12
Shri Vivek Mehra
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
HT Media Limited
Independent Director
Jubilant Pharmova Limited
Independent Director
Chambal Fertilisers and Chemicals Limited
Independent Director
DLF Limited
Independent Director
13
Smt. Namrata Kaul
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
Schneider Electric Infrastructure Limited
Independent Director
Fusion Finance Limited
Independent Director
AKZO Noble India Limited
Independent Director
14
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
SRF Limited
Chairman and Managing Director
Kama Holdings Limited
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director
Bharat Forge Limited
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director
(d)	 Number of Meetings of the Board of Directors 
held and dates on which held 
	
During the financial year 2024-25, 5 (Five) Board Meetings 
were held. The dates on which these Meetings were held 
are given in the Table provided in pt. no. (b) hereinabove.
(e)	 Disclosure of relationships between directors 
inter-se
	
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, Whole-time Director on the 
Board of Directors is the son of Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta, 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director.
(f)	
Number of shares and convertible instruments 
held by Non-Executive Directors 
	
None of the Non-Executive Directors holds any share in 
the Company.
(g)	 Web 
link 
where 
details 
of 
familiarisation 
programmes imparted to Independent Directors 
is disclosed 
	
All Independent Directors are familiarized with the 
Company, their roles, rights, responsibilities in the 
Company, nature of the industry in which the Company 
operates, business model of the Company, etc. from 
time to time. The Company makes consistent efforts to 
acquaint the Board with the overall business performance 
covering all Business verticals, by way of presenting 
specific performance of each Plant, Product Categories 
and Corporate Functions from time to time. The entire 
Board including Independent Directors has access to 
Product Heads/ Factory Heads and other commercial/ 
technical staff, wherever required for informed decision 
making. Detailed agenda are sent well in advance to all 
the Directors in order for the Board to perform its function 
and fulfill its role effectively.
	
The details regarding Independent Directors’ Familiarisation 
Programmes are given under the 'Codes & Policies' in the 
“Corporate Governance” section on the website of the 
Company and can be accessed at https://havells.com/
corporate/about-us/corporate-governance
(h)	 Skills/ Expertise/ Competence of the Board of 
Directors including the areas as identified by the 
Board in the context of the Company’s Business 
	
The Company is a Fast Moving Electrical Goods (FMEG) 
Company with the individual Members of its Board of 
Directors bringing in knowledge and experience from a 
variety of sectors, demonstrating breadth and depth of 
management and leadership experience in the following 
competence areas:
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
171
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
	
•	
Financial and business acumen;
	
•	
Guiding and setting the pace for Company’s 
Operations and future development by aiding 
implementation of best systems and processes; 
	
•	
Building effective Sales & Marketing strategies, 
Corporate Branding and Advertising functions; 
	
•	
Overseeing the development and implementation of 
Risk Management/ GRC tools; 
	
•	
Management and strategy of the Information 
Technology function; and
	
•	
Human Resources Management
	
•	
Corporate Governance and Sustainability
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Policy of Directors, 
KMPs and Other Employees of the Company sets out the 
criteria which serve as guidelines in considering potential 
nominees to the Board of Directors to ensure the 
continuance of a dynamic and forward-thinking Board.
	
Expertise/ Skill of Directors
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Skill/ Expertise/ Competence
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
Strategic Marketing, Brand transformation and Finance. 
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
Technical planning and foreign alliances.
3
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
Business development, spearheading new projects. 
4
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Finance and allied fields,  standardization of  systems and processes across the 
organization.
5
Shri Siddhartha Pandit
Contract 
Drafting 
& 
Negotiations, 
Litigation 
Management, 
Dispute 
Resolution, M&A Statutory Compliances, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) etc.
6
Shri T. V. Mohandas Pai
IT reforms, Human Resources, Education & Research, Social Reforms and betterment 
of the nation in areas of Trade and Industry.
7
Shri Puneet Bhatia
Strategic private equity investment and Business Management.
8
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani
Supply Chain, Human Resources, Corporate Quality and Sustainability (including Safety 
Functions), Advanced Management and Skill Development.
9
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha
Asset Management, Securities Laws, Corporate Governance, Banking, Finance, Foreign 
Investment, Corporate Bond Management and Investor Protection. 
10
Shri Subhash Sheoratan 
Mundra
Banking, Risk Management, Corporate Governance, Operations and Process 
Optimization.
11
Shri Bontha Prasada Rao
Manufacturing and Technology Management, Planning & Development activity, Capacity 
& Capability building.
12
Shri Vivek Mehra
Tax and Regulatory reforms, Cross-border Investments and Transaction Structuring, 
Corporate Governance and Sustainability.
13
Smt. Namrata Kaul
Banking & Finance, Treasury Operations, Debt Capital Market & Corporate Finance, Risk 
and Credit Management, Social development.
14
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
Strategic Planning, Entrepreneurial and Commercial Acumen, Brand Building and M&A.
(i)	
Confirmation that in the opinion of the Board, 
the Independent Directors fulfill the conditions 
specified in these Regulations and are independent 
of the management 
	
Based on the declarations submitted by the Independent 
Directors of the Company provided at the beginning of the 
Financial Year 2025-26, the Board hereby confirms that 
all the Independent Directors appointed by the Company 
fulfill the conditions specified in SEBI Listing Regulations 
and are independent of the management.
(j)	
Detailed reasons for the resignation of the 
Independent Director who resigns before the 
expiry of his/ her tenure along with a confirmation 
by such director that there are no other material 
reasons other than those provided:
	
None.
	
Separate Meeting of the Independent Directors
	
Separate Meeting of the Independent Directors of the 
Company is held every year in terms of the Schedule IV 
to the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 25 of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, whereat, inter alia, the following 
prescribed items are discussed:
	
a)	
Review 
of 
performance 
of 
Non-Independent 
Directors and the Board as a whole;
	
b)	
Review of performance of the Chairperson of the 
Company, taking into account the views of Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors;
	
c)	
Assessment of the quality, quantity and timeliness of 
flow of information between the Company management 
and the Board that is necessary for the Board to 
effectively and reasonably perform their duties.
Havells India Limited
172
	
In respect of the financial year 2024-25, the Independent 
Directors met once on 19th March, 2025 without 
the presence of any Non-Independent Director or 
representatives of management.
	
Company’s Code of Conduct to Regulate, 
Monitor, Report Trading by Designated Persons 
	
The Company has formulated a Code of Conduct 
to Regulate, Monitor, Report Trading by Designated 
Persons to deter the insider trading in the securities of 
the Company based on the unpublished price sensitive 
information. 
	
The Code envisages procedures to be followed and 
disclosures to be made while dealing in the securities of 
the Company. The said code was last updated by the 
Board of Directors on 21st July, 2021.
	
The full text of the Code is available on the website of 
Company under ‘Codes & Policies’ in the Corporate 
Governance section and can be accessed at https://
havells.com/corporate/about-us/corporate-governance
	
For the purpose of monitoring the Code, the Company 
uses a system-based software through which reports and 
analytics are made available based on the criteria defined 
in the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015.
	
Subsidiary
	
The Company has 4 (Four) Subsidiary Companies which 
are incorporated outside India. 
	
Please refer to the Directors’ Report for further details 
regarding subsidiaries.
	
The Board has approved a “Policy for determining 
Material Subsidiaries” of the Company and the same is 
available on the website of the Company under ‘Codes 
& Policies’ in the Corporate Governance section and can 
be accessed at https://havells.com/corporate/about-us/
corporate-governance
	
The Audit Committee of the Company reviews the 
financial statements, in particular, the investments made 
by the unlisted foreign subsidiary companies.
	
The Minutes of the Board Meetings of the unlisted foreign 
subsidiary companies are placed at the Board Meeting(s) 
of the Company held at the end of every quarter for 
approval of financial results.
	
The Management periodically brings to the attention 
of the Board of Directors, a statement of all significant 
transactions and arrangements entered into by the 
unlisted foreign subsidiary companies.
	
Related Party Transactions
	
The Company’s policy on materiality of related party 
transactions and on dealing with related party transactions 
is available on the website under ‘Codes & Policies’ in 
the Corporate Governance section and can be accessed 
at  https://havells.com/corporate/about-us/corporate-
governance. Per the SEBI Listing Regulations, we review 
this policy every three years, with the last review conducted 
by the Board of Directors on 17th October, 2024.
	
Each year, before the start of the financial year, the 
Board of Directors, based on recommendations from the 
Audit Committee, approves the projected related party 
transactions for the upcoming year. Subsequently, the 
Audit Committee and the Board review the actual related 
party transactions on a quarterly basis.
(3)	 Audit Committee
(a)	 Brief description of terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are as 
per the governing provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 (Section 177) and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (specified in 
Part C of Schedule II). 
	
The Role of the Audit Committee includes the following:
	
(i)	
oversight of the Company’s financial reporting 
process and the disclosure of its financial information 
to ensure that the financial statement is correct, 
sufficient and credible;
	
(ii)	
recommendation for appointment, remuneration and 
terms of appointment of auditors of the Company;
	
(iii)	
approval of payment to statutory auditors for any 
other services rendered by the statutory auditors;
	
(iv)	 reviewing, with the management, the annual financial 
statements and auditor's report thereon before 
submission to the Board for approval, with particular 
reference to: 
	
	
(a)	
matters required to be included in the director’s 
responsibility statement to be included in the Board’s 
Report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section (3) 
of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
	
	
(b)	
changes, if any, in accounting policies and 
practices and reasons for the same;
	
	
(c)	
major accounting entries involving estimates 
based on the exercise of judgment by 
management; 
	
	
(d)	
significant adjustments made in the financial 
statements arising out of audit findings; 
	
	
(e)	
compliance with listing and other legal 
requirements relating to financial statements; 
	
	
(f)	
disclosure of any related party transactions; 
	
	
(g)	
modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report;
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
173
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
	
(v)	
reviewing, with the management, the quarterly 
financial statements before submission to the Board 
for approval;
	
(vi)	 reviewing, with the management, the statement of 
uses/ application of funds raised through an issue 
(public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), 
the statement of funds utilized for purposes other 
than those stated in the offer document/ prospectus/ 
notice and the report submitted by the monitoring 
agency monitoring the utilization of proceeds of a 
public issue or rights issue or preferential issue 
or qualified institutions placement and making 
appropriate recommendations to the Board to take 
up steps in this matter;
	
(vii)	 reviewing 
and 
monitoring 
the 
auditor’s 
independence and performance and effectiveness 
of audit process;
	
(viii)	 approval or any subsequent modification of 
transactions of the Company with related parties;
	
(ix)	 scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
	
(x)	
valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, 
wherever it is necessary;
	
(xi)	 evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems;
	
(xii)	 reviewing, with the management, performance of 
statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of the 
internal control systems;
	
(xiii)	 reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, 
if any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official 
heading 
the 
department, 
reporting 
structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit;
	
(xiv)	 discussion with internal auditors of any significant 
findings and follow up thereon;
	
(xv)	 reviewing the findings of any internal investigations 
by the internal auditors into matters where there is 
suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal 
control systems of a material nature and reporting 
the matter to the Board;
	
(xvi)	 discussion with statutory auditors before the audit 
commences, about the nature and scope of audit as 
well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area 
of concern;
	
(xvii)	to look into the reasons for substantial defaults in 
the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors; 
	
(xviii)	to review the functioning of the whistle blower 
mechanism;
	
(xix)	 approval of appointment of chief financial officer 
after assessing the qualifications, experience and 
background, etc. of the candidate;
	
(xx)	 considering such other functions as the Board may 
specify;
	
(xxi)	 reviewing the utilization of loans and/ or advances 
from/ investment by the holding company in the 
subsidiary exceeding ` 100 crores or 10% of the 
asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower.
	
(xxii)	consider and comment on rationale, cost-benefits 
and impact of schemes involving merger, demerger, 
amalgamation etc., on the listed entity and its 
shareholders.
	
(xxiii)	reviewing other areas that may be brought under the 
purview of role of Audit Committee as specified in 
SEBI Regulations and the Companies Act, from time 
to time.
	
The Audit Committee has been granted powers as 
prescribed under Regulation 18 of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, to investigate any activity within its terms of 
reference, seek information from any employee, obtain 
outside legal or other professional advice and secure 
attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise, if it 
considers necessary. The Committee also mandatorily 
reviews the information as specified in the SEBI 
Regulations –management discussion and analysis of 
financial condition and results of operations, management 
letters/ letters of internal control weaknesses issued by 
the statutory auditors, if any, internal audit reports relating 
to internal control weaknesses, the appointment, removal 
and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor 
and statement of deviations, if any.
(b)	 Composition, Name of Members and Chairperson
	
The Audit Committee comprises of 3 (Three) Directors, 
all Independent, as its Members. All Members are 
financially literate and possess sound knowledge of 
accounts, finance and audit matters. The Company 
Secretary of the Company acts as Secretary to the 
Audit Committee. The Internal/ Statutory Auditors of the 
Company attend the Meetings of the Audit Committee 
on invitation of the Chairman of the Committee. The 
Composition of Audit Committee as on 31st March, 
2025, is given below:
Sr. 
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Upendra Kumar 
Sinha
Non-Executive 
Independent
Chairman
2
Shri Bontha Prasada 
Rao
Non-Executive 
Independent
Member
3
Smt. Namrata Kaul
Non-Executive 
Independent
Member
Havells India Limited
174
(c)	 Meetings and attendance during the year
Sr. 
No.
Name
Attendance in Audit 
Committee Meetings held on
30 Apr 24
18 Jul 24
25 Sep 24
17 Oct 24
16 Jan 25
 18 Mar 25
1
Shri Upendra 
Kumar Sinha






2
Smt. Namrata Kaul






3
Shri Bontha 
Prasada Rao






4
Shri Ameet Kumar 
Gupta*




NA
NA
	
* Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta was a Member of the Audit Committee 
till 17th October, 2024.
(4)	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee
(a)	 Brief description of terms of reference
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee has 
formulated the criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of directors and 
recommended to the Board a policy, relating to the 
remuneration for the Directors, key managerial personnel 
and other employees.
	
The terms of reference of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee are as per the governing 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (Section 178) 
and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (specified in Part D of 
Schedule II).
	
Further, in terms of the SEBI (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021, the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee also supervises 
the various ESOP/ ESPS Plans of the Company. 
(b)	 Composition, Name of Members and Chairperson
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprises 
of 3 (Three) Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman of 
the Committee is Non-Executive and Independent. The 
Company Secretary of the Company acts as Secretary 
to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. 
The Composition of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee as on 31st March, 2025, is given below:
Sr. 
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Ashish 
Bharat Ram
Non-Executive 
Independent
Chairman
2
Smt. Namrata 
Kaul
Non-Executive 
Independent
Member
3
Shri Puneet 
Bhatia
Non-Executive
Non-Independent
Member
(c)	 Meeting and attendance during the year
Sr. 
No.
Name
Attendance in Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee 
Meeting held on
30 Apr 24
1
Shri Ashish 
Bharat Ram

2
Smt. Namrata 
Kaul

3
Shri Puneet 
Bhatia

	
Further, during the year, the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee also passed a Resolution by way of Circulation 
on 26th July, 2024.
(d)	 Performance evaluation criteria for Independent 
Directors
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the 
Board has laid out the evaluation criteria for performance 
evaluation of the Board, its Committees and all the individual 
directors, in adherence of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
	
Brief synopsis of the performance evaluation carried out 
for the financial year is provided in the Directors’ Report 
Section of this Report.
(5)	 Stakeholders Relationship/ Grievance Redressal 
Committee
	
The terms of reference and the ambit of powers of 
Stakeholders 
Relationship/ 
Grievance 
Redressal 
Committee are as per the governing provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (Section 178) and the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (specified in Part D of Schedule II). The status of 
shareholder correspondences, queries, grievances etc. 
are endeavoured to be addressed instantaneously by 
the secretarial department and status thereof is also 
placed before the Stakeholders Relationship/ Grievance 
Redressal Committee. 
(a)	 Name of Non-Executive Director heading the 
Committee
	
The Stakeholders Relationship/ Grievance Redressal 
Committee comprises of 3 (Three) members majority of 
which are Non-Executive and Independent Directors. 
The Chairman of the Committee is Non-Executive and 
Independent. The Company Secretary of the Company 
acts as Secretary to the Stakeholders Relationship/ 
Grievance Redressal Committee. The Composition 
of Stakeholders Relationship/ Grievance Redressal 
Committee as on 31st March, 2025, is given below:
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
175
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
Sr. 
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Subhash 
Sheoratan 
Mundra
Non-Executive 
Independent
Chairman
2
Shri Jalaj Ashwin 
Dani
Non-Executive 
Independent
Member
3
Shri Surjit Kumar 
Gupta
Non-Executive
Non-Independent 
Member
(b)	 Name and designation of compliance officer
	
Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, Senior Vice President & 
Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer of the 
Company.
(c)	 Number of shareholders’ complaints received 
during the financial year 
	
The number of shareholders’ complaints received and 
resolved during financial year 2024-25 is given below:
	
(i)	
Number of shareholders’ complaints received – 3
	
(ii)	
Number of shareholders’ complaints resolved – 3
(d)	 Number of complaints not solved to the 
satisfaction of shareholders
	
None. All complaints were resolved to the satisfaction of 
shareholders.
(e)	 Number of pending complaints
	
As at 31st March, 2025, no complaint was pending 
unresolved.
(f)	
Meetings and attendance during the year
Sr. 
No.
Name
Attendance in 
Stakeholders 
Relationship/ Grievance 
Redressal Committee 
Meetings held on
29 Apr 24
16 Oct 24
1
Shri Subhash 
Sheoratan Mundra


2
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani


3
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta


(6)	 Enterprises Risk Management Committee
(a)	 Brief description of terms of reference
	
The role of the Enterprises Risk Management Committee 
is as per the Companies Act, 2013 and corresponding 
Rules framed thereunder and the applicable provisions of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (specified in Part D of Schedule II) as 
may be in force from time to time. 
(b)	 Composition, Name of Members and Chairperson
	
The Committee comprises of 4 (Four) members out 
of which 3 (Three) are Non-Executive Directors. The 
Chairman of the Committee is Non-Executive and 
Independent Director. The Company Secretary of the 
Company acts as Secretary to the Enterprises Risk 
Management Committee. The Composition of Enterprises 
Risk Management Committee as on 31st March, 2025 is 
given below:
Sr. 
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Jalaj Ashwin 
Dani
Non-Executive 
Independent
Chairman
2
Shri T.V. Mohandas 
Pai
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent
Member
3
Shri Subhash 
Sheoratan Mundra
Non-Executive 
Independent
Member
4
Shri Anil Rai Gupta Executive
Member
(c)	 Meetings and attendance during the year
Sr. 
No.
Name
Attendance in 
Enterprises Risk 
Management Committee 
Meetings held on
29 Apr 24
16 Oct 24
18 Mar 25
1
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani



2
Shri T.V. Mohandas Pai



3
Shri Subhash 
Sheoratan Mundra



4
Shri Anil Rai Gupta



(7)	 Senior Management
	
Particulars of Senior Management including the changes therein during the Financial Year 2024-25:
Sr. 
No.
Name
Designation
Changes, if any,
1
Shri Alok Tickoo
Executive Vice President – Sales Lloyd
-
2
Shri Anil Kumar
Executive Vice President – Operations
-
3
Shri Deepak Bansal
Executive Vice President – Electrical Consumer Durables -
4
Shri Dipesh Amritlal Shah
President & CTO – Center for Research & Innovation
Appointed on 10th February, 2025
5
Shri Mukul Saxena
President – Center for Research & Innovation
-
6
Shri Pramod Mundra
Executive Vice President & CIO – Information Technology
-
7
Shri Prag Kumar Bhatnagar
President – Consumer Lighting
-
8
Smt. Preemita Singh
Executive Vice President & CHRO – Human Resource & Personnel -
Havells India Limited
176
Sr. 
No.
Name
Designation
Changes, if any,
9
Shri Rakesh Mehrotra
Executive Director*
-
10
Shri Rakesh Moza
Executive Vice President – Modern Retail
-
11
Shri Rakesh Rajput
Executive Vice President – Operations – Cables
Resigned on 11th March, 2025
12
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Chief Financial Officer (Whole-time Director)
-
13
Shri Rajesh Rathi
Executive Vice President – Sales Lloyd
-
14
Shri Rajiv Goel
Executive Director*
-
15
Shri Rajiv Kenue
Executive Vice President – Small Domestic Appliances
Resigned on 23rd October, 2024
16
Shri Ramesh Viswanathan
Executive Vice President - Bangalore Centre for  
Research & Innovation
Promoted on 1st April, 2024
17
Shri Rohit Kapoor
Executive Vice President – Brand Management
-
18
Shri Sameer Kirit Anjaria
President – Standard
-
19
Shri Sandeep Bhargava
Executive Vice President & CPO –
Procurement team
Appointed on 22nd July, 2024
20
Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Company Secretary
-
21
Shri Saurabh Goel
Executive President – Building Segment
Resigned on 31st December, 2024
22
Shri Saurabh Kumar
Executive Vice President – E-Commerce
-
23
Shri Shrikant Pandit
Executive Vice President – Operations
-
24
Shri Vivek Yadav
Executive Vice President – Building Segment
-
25
Shri Yogesh Bansal
Executive Vice President - COO Havells and  
Lloyd Business Operations
Promoted on 1st April, 2024
26
Shri Yogesh Kumar Gupta Executive Director*
-
	
* Not a Board position in terms of the Companies Act, 2013. 
(8)	 Remuneration of Directors
(a)	 All pecuniary relationship or transactions of the 
Non-Executive Directors vis-à-vis the listed entity 
	
None, except for the Sitting Fee or the payment of 
Commission to Non-Executive Directors (except for 
promoter director).
(b)	 Criteria of making payments to Non-Executive 
Directors 
	
The Company has adopted a Nomination and Remuneration 
Policy for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other 
Employees, regulated by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee of the Board. The Policy is also available on the 
website of the Company at https://havells.com/corporate/
about-us/corporate-governance in the “Code & Policies” 
section in Corporate Governance.
	
The Non-Executive Directors, except for promoter 
director, are entitled to Sitting fees for attending meetings 
of the Board, its Committees and the Shareholders. The 
Non-Executive Directors, except promoter directors 
are also paid an annual commission of ` 20 lakhs per 
annum in addition to the fee payable to such Directors for 
attending the Board and other Meetings or reimbursement 
of expenses, if any. 
	
The remuneration to the Managing Director and Whole-
time Director(s) is paid on the scale determined by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee within the limits 
approved by the Shareholders at the General Meeting. 
(c)	 Disclosures with respect to Remuneration
	
(i)	
Details of remuneration/ sitting fees paid to Directors during the Financial Year 2024-25 are given below:
(` in Lakhs)
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Service 
Term 
No. of shares 
allotted/ 
transferred 
under ESPS
Sitting 
Fee (A)
Salary 
(B)
Perks
(C)
Commission 
(D)
Total 
(A+B+C+D)
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta*
(Chairman and Managing 
Director & CEO)
1-4-24 to
31-3-29
0
NA
940.80
0.40
2,576.73
3,517.92
2
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta**
(Whole-time Director)
1-1-20 to 
31-12-24 & 
1-1-25 to 
31-12-29
0
NA
537.60
0.40
1,103.19
1,641.19
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
177
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
(` in Lakhs)
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Service 
Term 
No. of shares 
allotted/ 
transferred 
under ESPS
Sitting 
Fee (A)
Salary 
(B)
Perks
(C)
Commission 
(D)
Total 
(A+B+C+D)
3
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta***
(Whole-time Director  
& Group CFO)
1-4-20 to
31-3-25
1,00,000
NA
833.29
0.40#
1,030.70
1,864.37
4
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
-
0
NA
-
-
-
-
5
Shri Siddhartha Pandit 
(Whole-time Director)
29-5-22 to 
28-5-25
930
NA
140.04
-#
-
140.04
6
Shri T. V. Mohandas Pai
-
0
8.00
-
-
20.00
28.00
7
Shri Puneet Bhatia
-
0
7.00
-
-
20.00
27.00
8
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani
-
0
13.00
-
-
20.00
33.00
9
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha
-
0
13.00
-
-
20.00
33.00
10
Shri Subhash Sheoratan 
Mundra
-
0
12.00
-
-
20.00
32.00
11
Shri Bontha Prasada Rao
-
0
13.00
-
-
20.00
33.00
12
Shri Vivek Mehra
-
0
9.00
-
-
20.00
29.00
13
Smt. Namrata Kaul
-
0
14.00
-
-
20.00
34.00
14
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
-
0
8.00
-
-
20.00
28.00
	
	
*Entitled to Commission @ 1.25% of the profit before tax.
	
	
**Entitled to Commission @ 0.50% till 31st December 2024 and @ 0.60% w.e.f. 1st January 2025 of the profit before tax.
	
	
***Entitled to Commission @ 0.50% of the profit before tax.
	
	
# Excluding the value of shares i.e. ` 1,644.45 lakhs exercised by Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta and ` 5.03 lakhs exercised by Shri 
Siddhartha Pandit during the financial year 2024-25 under the Employees Stock Purchase Schemes of the Company.
	
(ii)	
Details of fixed component and performance linked 
incentives, along with the performance criteria;
	
	
The details of fixed component is as provided in the 
Table above and there are no other incentives paid 
to any Director of the Company.
	
(iii)	
Service contracts, notice period, severance fees:
	
	
The appointment of the Executive Directors 
is governed by Resolutions passed by the 
Shareholders of the Company, which cover the terms 
and conditions of such appointment, read with the 
service rules of the Company. A separate Service 
Contract is not entered into by the Company with 
Executive Directors. No notice period or severance 
fee is payable to any Director.
	
(iv)	 Stock option details, if any and whether issued at a 
discount as well as the period over which accrued 
and over which exercisable:
	
	
During the financial year 2024-25, 1,00,000 Equity 
Shares of ` 1/- each were allotted to Shri Rajesh 
Kumar Gupta and 930 Equity Shares of ` 1/- each 
were allotted to Shri Siddhartha Pandit under 
various Employees Stock Purchase Schemes of the 
Company.
	
	
Besides the above, the Board of Directors has 
Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental, 
Social 
and 
Governance 
Committee, 
Share 
Allotment and Transfer Committee and an Executive 
Committee. In respect of these Committees brief 
details of the role, terms of reference, composition 
and no. of meetings held etc. are given below:
Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental, 
Social and Governance Committee
(a)	 Brief description of terms of reference
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental, 
Social and Governance Committee was formed pursuant 
to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014 or as amended from time to time, to 
formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy indicating the activities to be 
undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII 
to the Act, to recommend the amount of expenditure to be 
incurred on such activities, action plan and to monitor the 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the Company 
from time to time.
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the 
Company (“CSR Policy”) is available on the website of 
the Company under ‘Codes & Policies’ in the Corporate 
Governance section and can be accessed from https://
havells.com/corporate/about-us/corporate-governance.
	
The details of the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of 
the Company have also been disclosed in the Directors’ 
Report section of the Integrated Annual Report.
Havells India Limited
178
(b)	 Composition, Name of Members and Chairperson
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental, 
Social and Governance Committee comprises of 4 
(Four) members of which 2 (Two) are Non-Executive and 
Independent. The Chairman of the Committee is Non-
Executive and Independent. The Company Secretary 
of the Company acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
The Composition of Corporate Social Responsibility & 
Environmental, Social and Governance Committee as on 
31st March, 2025, is given below:
Sr. 
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Vivek Mehra
Non-Executive 
Independent
Chairman
2
Shri Jalaj Ashwin 
Dani
Non-Executive 
Independent
Member
3
Shri Surjit Kumar 
Gupta
Non-Executive
Non-Independent
Member
4
Shri Rajesh 
Kumar Gupta
Executive
Member
(c)	 Meetings and attendance during the year
Sr. 
No.
Name
Attendance in Corporate 
Social Responsibility & 
Environmental, Social and 
Governance Committee 
Meetings held on
29 Apr 24
16 Oct 24
1
Shri Vivek Mehra


2
Shri Jalaj Ashwin 
Dani


3
Shri Surjit Kumar 
Gupta


4
Shri Rajesh Kumar 
Gupta


Share Allotment and Transfer Committee
The Share Allotment and Transfer Committee meets regularly 
to consider requests of share transmission/ transposition/ split/ 
consolidation/ sub-division/ duplicate share certificate/ IEPF/ 
Unclaimed Suspense etc. and also to take note of the investor 
grievances. The summary of number of requests/ grievances 
received and resolved in every quarter is also placed before the 
Stakeholders Relationship/ Grievance Redressal Committee 
for its information and review.
The Committee comprises of 1 (One) Non-Executive Director 
and 2 (Two) Executive Directors. Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta being 
Non-Executive Director is the Chairman of the Committee. The 
Company Secretary of the Company acts as Secretary to the 
Share Allotment and Transfer Committee. The Composition 
of Share Allotment and Transfer Committee as on 31st March, 
2025, is given below:
Sr. 
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Surjit Kumar 
Gupta
Non-Executive
Non-Independent
Chairman
2
Shri Anil Rai Gupta Executive
Member
3
Shri Rajesh Kumar 
Gupta
Executive
Member
During the financial year 2024-25, the Share Allotment and 
Transfer Committee met 17 (Seventeen) times. 
Executive Committee
The role of the Executive Committee is to expeditiously decide 
business matters of routine nature and implementation of 
strategic decisions of the Board. The Committee functions 
within the approved framework and directions of the Board. 
The Committee also performs other activities as per the terms 
of reference defined by the Board. The Committee comprises 
of 1 (One) Non-Executive Director and 3 (Three) Executive 
Directors. Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta being Non-Executive 
Director is the Chairman of the Committee. The Company 
Secretary of the Company acts as Secretary to the Executive 
Committee. The Composition of the Executive Committee as 
on 31st March, 2025, is given below:
Sr. 
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Surjit  
Kumar Gupta
Non-Executive
Non-Independent
Chairman
2
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
Executive
Member
3
Shri Ameet  
Kumar Gupta
Executive
Member
4
Shri Rajesh  
Kumar Gupta
Executive
Member
During the financial year 2024-25, the Executive Committee 
met 11 (Eleven) times. 
(9)	 General Body Meetings
(a)	 Location and time, where last three Annual 
General Meetings held
Date of AGM Location
Time
28th June, 
2024
Through Video 
Conferencing (VC) or 
Other Audio Visual Means 
(OAVM)
2:00 p.m.
27th June, 
2023
Through Video 
Conferencing (VC) or
Other Audio Visual  
Means (OAVM)
10:00 a.m.
8th July, 2022
Through Video 
Conferencing (VC) or
Other Audio Visual  
Means (OAVM)
10:00 a.m.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
179
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
(b)	 Whether any Special Resolutions passed in the 
previous three annual general meetings
Date of AGM
Details 
of 
Special 
Resolutions 
passed, if any
28th June, 
2024
Re-appointment 
of 
Shri 
Surjit 
Kumar Gupta (DIN: 00002810) as 
Director, who retires by rotation 
and being eligible, offers himself for 
re-appointment
Re-appointment 
of 
Shri 
Rajesh 
Kumar Gupta (DIN: 00002842) as the 
Whole-time Director & Group CFO of 
the Company
Re-appointment 
of 
Shri 
Bontha 
Prasada Rao (DIN: 01705080) as 
an 
Independent 
Director 
for 
a 
Second Term
Re-appointment of Shri Subhash 
S 
Mundra 
(DIN: 
00979731) 
as 
an 
Independent 
Director 
for 
a 
Second Term
Re-appointment of Shri Vivek Mehra 
(DIN: 00101328) as an Independent 
Director for a Second Term
27th June, 
2023
None
8th July, 2022
Approval of the Havells Employees 
Stock Purchase Scheme 2022 and its 
implementation through Trust
Authorization for Havells Employees 
Welfare Trust to Subscribe to Shares 
for and under the Havells Employees 
Stock Purchase Scheme 2022
Provisioning of money by the Company 
to the Havells Employees Welfare 
Trust/ Trustees for Subscription of 
Shares under the Havells Employees 
Stock Purchase Scheme, 2022
Amendment to the Part B – “Havells 
Employees 
Stock 
Purchase 
Plan 
2014” of Havells Employees Long 
Term Incentive Plan 2014 and related 
modifications thereto
(c)	 Special Resolution passed last year through 
postal ballot – details of voting pattern and 
procedure thereof
	
NIL
(d)	 Person who conducted the postal ballot exercise:
	
Not Applicable
(e)	 Special Resolution proposed to be conducted 
through postal ballot
	
No Resolution requiring Postal Ballot as required by 
the Companies (Passing of Resolution by Postal Ballot) 
Rules, 2011, has been placed for Shareholder’s approval 
at this Annual General Meeting.
(10)	Means of Communication
(a)	 Quarterly Results
	
The Company publishes limited reviewed un-audited 
standalone & consolidated financial results on a quarterly 
basis. In respect of the fourth quarter, the Company 
publishes the audited financial results both standalone & 
consolidated for the complete financial year.
(b)	 Newspapers wherein results normally published 
	
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results are 
published in Economic Times in English and Jansatta 
Hindi Daily editions.
(c)	 Website, where displayed
	
The financial results and the official news releases are also 
placed on the Company’s website www.havells.com in 
the investor relations section and can be accessed from 
https://havells.com/corporate/investors/financials.
(d)	 Official news releases
	
The Company regularly publishes an information update 
on its financial results and also displays official news 
releases in the investor relations section.
(e)	 Presentations made to institutional investors or to 
the analysts
	
The Company holds analysts calls in each quarter, to 
apprise and make public the information relating to the 
Company’s working and future outlook. 
(11)	General Shareholder Information
(a)	 Annual General Meeting - Date, Time and Venue
	
Day	 	
: 	 Tuesday	
	
Date		
: 	 17th June, 2025	
	
Time		
: 	 11:00 am
	
Venue	
: 	 Through Video Conferencing (VC) or Other 
Audio Visual Means (OAVM) or as permitted 
by the relevant Statutory Authorities.
	
	
	
	
Company’s Registered Office i.e. 904, 9th 
Floor, Surya Kiran Building, K.G. Marg, 
Connaught Place, New Delhi – 110001 will 
be considered as Venue for the purpose of 
this Annual General Meeting. 
(b)	 Financial year
	
The Financial year of the Company starts from 1st April of 
a year and ends on 31st March of the following year. The 
tentative calendar of meeting of Board of Directors for 
consideration of quarterly financial results for the Financial 
Year 2025-26 are as follows:
First Quarter Results
July 2025
Second Quarter and Half yearly Results October 2025
Third Quarter Results
January 2026
Fourth Quarter and Annual Results
April 2026
(c)	 Dividend Payment Date
	
The Board of Directors of your Company declared an 
interim dividend of ` 4.00 per equity share of ` 1/- each 
i.e. @400% during the financial year 2024-25. Payment of 
dividend was done within 30 days from date of declaration 
i.e. 16th January, 2025. 
Havells India Limited
180
	
The Board of Directors of your Company has also 
recommended a Final Dividend of ` 6.00 per equity share 
of ` 1/- each i.e. @600% for the financial year 2024-25. 
Date of payment of dividend would be within 30 days 
from the date of AGM.
(d)	 Name and address of each stock exchange(s) at 
which the listed entity's securities are listed and a 
confirmation about payment of annual listing fee 
to each of such stock exchange(s)
	
The equity shares of the Company are listed at:
	
•	
The National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE), 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla 
Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai- 400 051
	
•	
BSE Limited (BSE), Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street, Mumbai- 400 001
	
The annual listing fee for the FY 2025-26 has been paid 
by the Company to both the stock exchanges within the 
stipulated time.
(e)	 In case the securities are suspended from trading, 
the directors report shall explain the reason 
thereof
	
Not applicable.
(f)	
Registrar to an issue and share transfer agents 
	
MUFG Intime India Private Limited
	
Noble Heights, 1st Floor, Plot No. NH 2, 
	
LSC, C-1 Block, Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri, 
	
New Delhi-110058 
	
Telephone: 011-49411000
	
Email: delhi@in.mpms.mufg.com
	
Website: www.in.mpms.mufg.com
(g)	 Share transfer system
	
The Board has delegated the authority for approving 
transfer, transmission of shares etc. to the Share Allotment 
and Transfer Committee.
	
In terms of amended Regulation 40 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations w.e.f. lst April, 2019, transfer of securities 
in physical form are not processed unless the securities 
are held in the dematerialised mode with a Depository 
Participant. Further, with effect from 24th January, 2022, 
SEBI has made it mandatory for listed companies to 
issue securities in dematerialised mode only while 
processing any investor service request viz. issue of 
duplicate securities certificates, claim from unclaimed 
suspense account, renewal/ exchange of securities 
certificate, endorsement, sub-division/ splitting of 
securities 
certificate, 
consolidation 
of 
securities 
certificates/ folios, transmission and transposition. 
Further, SEBI vide its Circular dated 25 January 2022, 
clarified that the RTA/ listed company shall verify and 
process the service requests and thereafter issue a 
‘Letter of Confirmation’ in lieu of physical securities 
certificate(s), to the securities holder/ claimant within 
30 days of its receipt of such request after removing 
objections, if any. The ‘Letter of Confirmation’ shall 
be valid for a period of 120 days from the date of its 
issuance, within which the securities holder/ claimant 
shall make a request to the Depository Participant for 
dematerializing the said securities. 
(h)	 Distribution of shareholding as on 31st March, 2025
Shareholding of Nominal 
Value of `1/- each
Shareholders 
(Numbers)
% of Total Share
Holders
No. of Shares
Nominal Value
(in `)
% of 
Nominal Value
Upto 5,000
2,50,547
99.27
1,71,15,632
1,71,15,632
2.73
5,001 - 10,000
722
0.28
53,24,290
53,24,290
0.85
10,001 - 20,000
350
0.14
49,95,199
49,95,199
0.80
20,001 - 30,000
144
0.06
35,09,861
35,09,861
0.56
30,001 - 40,000
79
0.03
27,65,065
27,65,065
0.44
40,001 - 50,000
46
0.02
20,46,024
20,46,024
0.33
50,001 - 1,00,000
152
0.06
1,09,28,137
1,09,28,137
1.74
1,00,001 & Above
346
0.14
58,02,57,524
58,02,57,524
92.55
GRAND TOTAL
2,52,386
100.00
62,69,41,732
62,69,41,732
100.00
	
Ownership Pattern as on 31st March, 2025
Category
No. of 
Shareholders
No. of Shares 
Held
% of Total 
Holding
Promoters
Indian Promoters
3
37,24,57,920
59.41
Non Promoters
Institutional Investors
 
 
 
Mutual Fund and Alternative Investment Funds
221
3,43,19,214
5.47
Foreign Portfolio Investors
862
13,98,98,166
22.31
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
181
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
Category
No. of 
Shareholders
No. of Shares 
Held
% of Total 
Holding
Bank, Financial Institutions and Insurance Companies
72
3,52,28,452
5.62
Central Government/ State Government(s)
3
7,332
0.00
Sovereign Wealth Funds
2
8,33,441
0.13
Provident Funds/ Pension Funds
35
95,88,769
1.53
Non-Institutions
Indian Public*
2,44,486
3,01,20,058
4.81
NRI & FN
5,828
20,62,651
0.33
Bodies Corporate 
874
24,25,729
0.39
Grand Total
2,52,386
62,69,41,732
100.00
	
* Indian Public shareholding includes shareholdings of individuals, Directors & their relatives, KMPs, shares with IEPF Authority, 
Trusts, HUF and Clearing Members.
	
Details of Ownership Pattern given above are based on the Shareholding Pattern filed with the Stock Exchanges as at 
31st March, 2025, wherein the Shareholding is consolidated on the basis of PAN. 
Ownership Pattern as on 31st March 2025
	 59.41%  Promoters
	 5.47%  Mutual Funds and AIF
	 5.62%  Banks, FIs and Insurance Companies
	 22.31%  Foreign Portfolio Investors
	 0.00%  Central/ State Government(s) 
	 0.39%  Private Corporate Bodies
	 4.81%  Indian Public
	 0.33%  NRI/ Foreign Nationals
	 0.13%  Sovereign Wealth Funds
	 1.53%  Provident Funds
	
List of Shareholders other than Promoters holding more than 1% as on 31st March, 2025
Sr. 
No.
Name of Shareholder
No. of Shares held
% of Total 
Shareholding
1
Nalanda India Equity Fund Limited
2,58,20,184
4.12
2
Life Insurance Corporation of India
1,82,17,209
2.91
3
Government Pension Fund Global
1,01,80,159
1.62
4
Life Insurance Corporation of India - P & Gs Fund
76,62,804
1.22
5
Government of Singapore
63,59,625
1.01
(i)	
Dematerialization of shares and liquidity
	
The shares of the Company are in compulsory demat 
segment and are available for trading in the depository 
systems of both the National Securities Depository 
Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited (CDSL). As at 31st March, 2025, 62,63,38,110 
Equity shares out of 62,69,41,732 Equity Shares of the 
Company, forming 99.90% of the Company’s paid up 
capital is held in the dematerialized form. Majority of 
demat shares are with National Securities Depository 
Limited. The status of shares held in demat and physical 
format is given below. The Company’s shares are liquid 
and actively traded on the NSE and BSE.
Havells India Limited
182
Particulars
As on 31st March, 2025
As on 31st March, 2024
Number of Shares
Percentage
Number of Shares
Percentage
Shares in Demat Form
62,63,38,110
99.90
62,58,42,372
99.87
NSDL
61,69,73,714
98.41
61,62,48,122
98.34
CDSL
93,64,396
1.49
95,94,250
1.53
Shares in Physical Form
6,03,622
0.10
8,40,658
0.13
Total
62,69,41,732
100.00
62,66,83,030
100.00
(j)	
Outstanding global depository receipts or American depository receipts or warrants or any convertible 
instruments, conversion date and likely impact on equity
	
There are no GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants outstanding as on 31st March 2025.
(k)	 Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities
	
In order to manage the Company’s Foreign Exchange exposure, the Company has in place a Board approved Policy on 
Foreign Exchange for the management of corporate foreign exchange risk by defining its exposures, measuring them and 
defining appropriate actions to control the risk. The intent of this Policy is to minimise the financial statement impact of 
fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates.
(l)	
Plant locations:
Sr. 
No.
Unit/ Plant
Products
1
Distt. Solan, Baddi, Himachal Pradesh – 173205
Electrical Wire Accessories and Switchgears
2
Plot No. 2 and 2A, Sector - 12, SIDCUL Industrial Area,  
Haridwar, Uttarakhand – 249403
Water Purifier and Appliances
3
Plot No.6, Site - IV, Sahibabad Industrial Area, Sahibabad  
(U.P.) – 201005
Switchgears and Capacitors
4
SP-181 – 189 & 191(A) Industrial Area, Phase II, Neemrana,  
Alwar, Rajasthan – 301705
Motor and Pump
Lighting & Fixture, Water Heater
5
A/461-462, & SP – 215, 204 & 204(A) Matsya Industrial Area, 
Alwar, Rajasthan – 301030
Industrial & Domestic Cable
6
Sector-10, Plot No 2A & 2D, SIDCUL Industrial Area, Haridwar, 
Uttrakhad – 249403
Fan
7
SP1-133, Rico Industrial Area, Behror, Ghiloth, Alwar,  
Rajasthan – 301706
Air Conditioner & Washing Machine
8
10050, Central Expressway, Sri City – 517646
Air Conditioner
9
685-686, Vasanthanarasapura Industrial Area, Phase-III, Tumakuru, 
Karnataka – 572138
Industrial & Domestic Cable
Ownership Pattern as on 31st March 2025
	 98.41%  NSDL
	 1.49%  CDSL
	 0.10%  Physical
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
183
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
(m)	 Address for correspondence
	
The Company Secretary
	
Havells India Limited
	
(Secretarial Department)
	
QRG Towers, 2D, Sector – 126,
	
Expressway, Noida – U.P.
	
Pin – 201304
	
Telephone No.: 0120 – 3331000
	
Fax No.: 0120 – 3332000
	
Email: investors@havells.com 
	
Address for Correspondence with the Registrar and 
Transfer Agents
	
MUFG Intime India Private Limited
	
Noble Heights, 1st Floor, Plot No. NH 2, 
	
LSC, C-1 Block, Near Savitri Market, 
	
Janakpuri, New Delhi-110058 
	
Telephone: 011-49411000
	
Email: delhi@in.mpms.mufg.com
(n)	 List of all credit ratings obtained by the entity 
along with any revisions thereto during the 
relevant financial year, for all debt instruments of 
such entity or any fixed deposit programme or any 
scheme or proposal of the listed entity involving 
mobilization of funds, whether in India or abroad 
	
The Company has obtained the following Credit Ratings 
from CARE:
Long-term Bank Facilities
:
CARE AAA (Triple A)
Short-term Bank Facilities
:
CARE A1+ (A One Plus)
Commercial Paper
:
CARE A1+ (A One Plus)
Corporate Governance
:
CG 2+ (CG Two Plus)
	
The details on credit ratings are provided in the Directors 
Report and are also available on the website of the 
Company in the Investor Relations section and can be 
accessed 
at 
https://havells.com/corporate/investors/
credit-rating.
	
During the year ended 31st March, 2025, there was no 
change in the above ratings by CARE. 
(12)	Other Disclosures
(a)	 Disclosures on materially significant related party 
transactions that may have potential conflict with 
the interests of listed entity at large
	
During the financial year 2024-25, there was no materially 
significant related party transaction that may have potential 
conflict with the interests of the Company at large. For 
reference, the details of related party transactions in 
accordance with IND AS–24 are given in Note No. 6 of 
Other Notes on Accounts of the Annual Report. 
(b)	 Details of non-compliance by the listed entity, 
penalties, strictures imposed on the listed entity 
by stock exchange(s) or the board or any statutory 
authority, on any matter related to capital markets, 
during the last three years
	
The Company has not been penalized, nor have the stock 
exchanges, SEBI or any statutory authority imposed any 
strictures, during the last three years, on any matter 
relating to capital markets.
(c)	 Details of establishment of vigil mechanism/ 
whistle blower policy and affirmation that no 
personnel has been denied access to the audit 
committee
	
The Company has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy 
called ‘Satark’ which means alert/ vigilant empowering 
any person associated with the organization to file a 
grievance if he/ she notices any irregularity. ‘Satark’ Policy 
is available on the website of the Company at https://
havells.com/corporate/about-us/corporate-governance.
	
No person has been denied access to the Audit 
Committee for any grievance.
	
The Company has in addition to Whistle Blower Policy 
also adopted a policy named ‘Idea’ to promote a culture 
of innovative thinking, creativity and vigilance in all areas 
of its business. The ideas may be related to technical 
aspects of business, non-technical aspects, commercial 
aspects, administrative aspects, processes, cost saving 
or any such other aspect that may benefit the Company.
(d)	 Details 
of 
compliance 
with 
mandatory 
requirements and adoption of the non-mandatory 
requirements
	
The Company has fully complied with the mandatory 
requirements of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
(e)	 Web link where policy for determining ‘material’ 
subsidiaries is disclosed
	
The policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries is 
available on the website of the Company under 'Codes 
& Policies' in the Corporate Governance section and can 
be accessed at https://havells.com/corporate/about-us/
corporate-governance.
(f)	
Web link where policy on dealing with related 
party transactions
	
The policy on dealing with related party transactions is 
available on the website of the Company under 'Codes 
& Policies' in the Corporate Governance section and can 
be accessed at https://havells.com/corporate/about-us/
corporate-governance.
(g)	 Disclosure 
of 
commodity 
price 
risks 
and 
commodity hedging activities
	
In order to manage the Company’s Foreign Exchange 
exposure, the Company has in place a Board approved 
Policy on Foreign Exchange Management for the 
management of corporate foreign exchange risk by 
defining its exposures, measuring them and defining 
appropriate actions to control the risk. The intent of this 
Havells India Limited
184
Policy is to minimise the financial statement impact of 
fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. 
	
Policy on Foreign Exchange Risk and Commodity Price 
Risk alongwith Foreign Currency exposure is given under 
Note No. 10 of Other Notes on Accounts of the Annual 
Report.
(h)	 Details of utilization of funds raised through 
preferential allotment or qualified institutions 
placement as specified under Regulation 32 (7A). 
	
The Company did not raise any funds through preferential 
allotment or qualified institutions placement during the 
year.
(i)	
Certificate from a company secretary in practice 
that none of the directors on the board of the 
company have been debarred or disqualified 
from being appointed or continuing as Directors 
of Companies by the Board/ Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs or any such statutory authority 
	
On the basis of written representations/ declaration 
received from the directors, as on March 31, 2025, 
M/s Balika Sharma & Associates, Company Secretaries 
(Membership No. FCS 4816, CP No. 3222), have issued a 
certificate, confirming that none of the Directors on Board 
of the Company has been debarred or disqualified from 
being appointed or continuing as Director of companies 
by SEBI/ MCA or any such authority and the same also 
forms part of this Report.
(j) 	 Where the board had not accepted any 
recommendation of any committee of the board 
which is mandatorily required, in the relevant 
financial year, the same to be disclosed along 
with reasons thereof 
	
The Board accepted the recommendations of its 
Committees, wherever made, during the year.
(k) 	 Total fees for all services paid by the listed entity 
and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to 
the statutory auditor and all entities in the network 
firm/network entity of which the statutory auditor 
is a part
	
The details of total fees for all services paid by the 
Company and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, 
to the statutory auditor and all entities in the network firm/ 
network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part, are 
as follows:
Type of Service
Amount (in ` crores)
Audit Fee
1.45
BRSR Core and Other 
Indicators Assurance Report
0.32
Certification Fee
0.15
Reimbursement of expenses
0.18
Total 
2.10
(l)	
Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 
	
The Company is committed to providing and promoting a 
safe and healthy work environment for all its employees. 
A Nirbhaya policy which is in line with the statutory 
requirements is in place.
	
a.	
number of complaints filed during the financial 
year – 2 
	
b.	
number of complaints disposed off during the 
financial year – 2
	
c.	
number of complaints pending as on end of the 
financial year – 0
(m)	 disclosure by listed entity and its subsidiaries 
of Loans and advances in the nature of loans to 
firms/companies in which directors are interested 
by name and amount
	
None
(n)	 Details of material subsidiaries of the listed entity; 
including the date and place of incorporation and 
the name and date of appointment of the statutory 
auditors of such subsidiaries
	
The Company does not have any material subsidiary.
(13)	Disclosure 
of 
the 
extent 
to 
which 
the 
Discretionary Requirements as Specified in Part 
E of Schedule II have been Adopted
	
(a)	
The Board: Chairman of the Company being on 
Executive position, the provision on entitlement of 
chairperson’s office at the expense of the Company 
in case of a non-executive chairperson is not 
applicable.
	
(b)	
Shareholder Rights: Quarterly financial statements 
are published in leading newspapers and uploaded 
on 
Company’s 
website 
https://havells.com/
corporate/investors/financials.
	
(c)	
Modified opinion(s) in audit report: The Company 
already has a regime of un-qualified financial 
statements. Auditors have raised no qualification on 
the financial statements.
	
(d)	
Separate posts of Chairperson and the Managing 
Director or the CEO: Presently, Shri Anil Rai Gupta 
is the Chairman and Managing Director of the 
Company. He is also the CEO of the Company.
	
(e)	
Reporting of Internal Auditor: The Company 
appointed E&Y as the Internal Auditors for 
conducting the internal audit for the FY 2024-25, 
representatives whereof report to the Head, Risk 
Management and Governance Department who 
reports to the Whole-time Director & Group CFO 
and has direct access to the Audit Committee.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
185
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
(14)	Disclosures of the Compliance with Corporate 
Governance 
Requirements 
Specified 
in 
Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of 
Sub-Regulation (2) of Regulation 46 
	
The Company has complied with all the mandatory 
requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses 
(b) to (i) of sub – regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
Declaration Signed by the Chief Executive Officer 
Stating that the Members of Board of Directors 
and Senior Management Personnel have Affirmed 
Compliance with the Code of Conduct of Board of 
Directors and Senior Management
The Company is committed to conduct its business in 
accordance with the applicable laws, rules and regulations 
and with the highest standards of business ethics. Havells’ 
Code of Ethics is intended to provide guidance and help in 
recognizing and dealing with ethical issues, mechanisms to 
report unethical conduct and to help foster a culture of honesty 
and accountability.
The Board has adopted a Code of Ethics for Directors, Senior 
Management and other Employees of the Company. 
The Code is available on the website of the Company under 
'Codes & Policies' in the Corporate Governance section and 
can be accessed at https://havells.com/corporate/about-us/
corporate-governance.
Declaration pursuant to SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
All Board Members and Senior Management Personnel 
have affirmed compliance with the code of ethics for the 
financial year ended 31st March, 2025.
	
	
Anil Rai Gupta
Noida, April 22, 2025	
Chairman and Managing Director 
Compliance Certificate from Either the Auditors 
or 
Practicing 
Company 
Secretaries 
Regarding 
Compliance of Conditions of Corporate Governance
The Certificate from the Statutory Auditors of the Company 
regarding compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance 
is annexed with the Directors’ Report and forms an integral 
part of the Integrated Annual Report.
Disclosures with Respect to Demat Suspense 
Account/ Unclaimed Suspense Account
The Company had 1,32,100 Equity Shares of ` 1/- each 
in respect of 18 Shareholders, lying into the Unclaimed 
Suspense A/c of the demat account held with NSDL 
(IN30045014669162). 
The requisite disclosures as per Schedule V (F) of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 in this regard are given below:
(a)	
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding 
shares in the suspense account lying at the beginning 
of the year – 22 (No. of shareholders); 1,60,100 (No. of 
shares) respectively.
(b)	
Number of shareholders who approached listed entity 
for transfer of shares from suspense account during the 
year – 4 (No. of shareholders); 28,000 (No. of shares).
(c)	
Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred 
from suspense account during the year – 4 (No. of 
shareholders); 28,000 (No. of shares).
	
Note: The dividend on 1,32,100 shares (lying in the 
Unclaimed Suspense A/c) which remained unpaid for 
a period of 7 consecutive years from the financial year 
2016-17 (Final) was due for transfer into IEPF A/c as also 
the said shares. Accordingly, the Share Allotment and 
Transfer Committee in its Meeting held on 27th August, 
2024, approved transfer of the entire balance of Shares 
lying in the Unclaimed Suspense A/c of the Company 
into the IEPF A/c vide corporate action executed on 
10th September 2024.
(d)	
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding 
shares in the suspense account lying at the end of 
year – 0. 
(e)	
that the voting rights on these shares shall remain 
frozen till the rightful owner of such shares claims the 
shares – NA
Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding 
Listed Entities 
There is no such agreement which is required to be disclosed 
under clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III of 
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
Other useful Information for Shareholders 
Mandatory furnishing of PAN, KYC details by holders 
of physical securities
Pursuant to SEBI mandate, it is mandatory for all holders of 
physical securities in listed companies to furnish PAN, Contact 
details, Bank A/c details and Specimen signature for their 
corresponding folio numbers. 
In case of non-updation of PAN, Contact Details including 
Mobile Number, Bank Account Details and Specimen 
Signatures in respect of the physical folios, no dividend shall 
be paid to the investor until all of the aforesaid KYC details are 
updated by the investor.
Once updated, all the unclaimed dividend previously declared 
by the Company shall be paid to the shareholder electronically.
Havells India Limited
186
Choice of nomination 
In terms of the SEBI circular dated June 10, 2024, all investors 
are encouraged in their own interest, to provide choice of 
nomination by contacting the RTA, if shares are held in physical 
form or their respective Depository Participant(s), if shares are 
held in dematerialised form. Further, as mandated in the above 
mentioned SEBI circular, all new investors are mandatorily 
required to provide the choice of nomination for their demat 
accounts (except for jointly held demat accounts). 
Forms for availing various Investor services
Investors holding securities in physical mode interface with 
the RTAs, inter-alia, for registering/ updating the KYC details 
and for the processing of various service requests. The 
service requests along with requisite forms, as prescribed 
by SEBI are available on the website of the Company under 
download section at https://havells.com/corporate/investors/
shareholders-corner.
Unclaimed Dividend and shares
In terms of the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
dividends remaining unpaid/ unclaimed for a period of 7 
(Seven) years have to be statutorily transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) and such shares in 
respect of which dividend entitlements remained unclaimed 
for 7 (Seven) consecutive years or more are also required to 
be transferred by the Company to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund, administered by the Central Government. To 
ensure maximum disbursement of unclaimed dividend, the 
Company regularly sends reminder to the relevant investors.
Unclaimed Dividend in respect of the financial year 2017-18 
(Final) and the shares in respect of which dividend entitlements 
remain unclaimed for seven consecutive years will be due for 
transfer to the IEPF on 26th August, 2025 in terms of Section 124 
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer 
and Refund) Rules, 2016. Members who have not encashed 
their Final Dividends in respect of the financial year ended 31st 
March, 2018 or any subsequent year(s) are requested to lodge 
their claims with the Company. 
A separate communication in this regard has already been 
sent to the Shareholders of the Company who have not 
encashed their dividend warrants, providing them details of the 
unencashed warrants and requesting them to comply with the 
procedure for seeking payment of the same.
In respect of Final Dividend for the financial year ended 31st 
March, 2018, it will not be possible to entertain claims which 
are received by the Company after 26th August, 2025. 
Members are advised that in terms of the provisions of Section 
124 of the Companies Act, 2013, once unclaimed dividend 
and shares are transferred to IEPF, no claim shall lie against the 
Company in respect thereof. However members may apply for 
the same with the IEPF authority by making an application in 
the prescribed web Form No. IEPF-5.
Financial Year
Dividend Type
Dividend Per Share (`)
Date of Declaration
Due date of transfer to IEPF
2017-18
Final
4.00
20.07.2018
26.08.2025
2018-19
Final
4.50
27.07.2019
31.08.2026
2019-20
Interim
4.00
06.03.2020
10.04.2027
2020-21
Interim
3.00
20.01.2021
24.02.2028
2020-21
Final
3.50
30.06.2021
06.08.2028
2021-22
Interim
3.00
20.10.2021
26.11.2028
2021-22
Final
4.50
08.07.2022
14.08.2029
2022-23
Interim
3.00
19.01.2023
25.02.2030
2022-23
Final
4.50
27.06.2023
03.08.2030
2023-24
Interim
3.00
23.01.2024
28.02.2031
2024-25
Final
6.00
28.06.2024
04.08.2031
2024-25
Interim
4.00
16.01.2025
22.02.2032
For and on behalf of
Board of Directors of Havells India Limited
Anil Rai Gupta
Noida, April 22, 2025
Chairman and Managing Director
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
187
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
We, Anil Rai Gupta, Chairman and Managing Director & CEO and Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Whole-time Director & Group CFO of 
Havells India Limited, to the best of our knowledge and belief, certify that:
a.	
We have reviewed the financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year ended 31st March, 2025 and that to the 
best of our knowledge and belief:
	
i.	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that 
might be misleading;
	
ii.	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
b.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which are 
fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
c.	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have evaluated 
the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and we have disclosed, to the 
auditors and the Audit Committee, wherever applicable, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if 
any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
d.	
We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit Committee, wherever applicable,
	
i.	
significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
	
ii.	
significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to the 
financial statements; and
	
iii.	
instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management 
or any employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
For Havells India Limited
For Havells India Limited
(Anil Rai Gupta)
(Rajesh Kumar Gupta)
Chairman and Managing Director & CEO
Whole-time Director & Group CFO
Noida, April 22, 2025
CEO’S/ CFO’S CERTIFICATE
Havells India Limited
188
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10) (i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members of
Havells India Limited
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Havells India 
Limited having CIN L31900DL1983PLC016304 and having Registered Office at 904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building, K G Marg, 
Connaught Place, New Delhi Central Delhi-110001 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company 
for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the 
Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its officers, 
We hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ending on 31st 
March, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sr. No.
Name of Director
DIN
Date of Appointment
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
00011892
30/09/1992
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
00002810
08/08/1983
3
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
00002838
22/12/2014
4
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta
00002842
21/03/1992
5
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha
00010336
01/03/2018
6
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani
00019080
16/08/2017
7
Shri Bontha Prasada Rao
01705080
12/05/2020
8
Shri Subhash Sheoratan Mundra
00979731
12/05/2020
9
Shri Vivek Mehra
00101328
12/05/2020
10
Smt. Namrata Kaul
00994532
20/01/2021
11
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
00671567
20/05/2021
12
Shri Mohandas Tellicheery Venkataraman Pai
00042167
22/12/2014
13
Shri Puneet Bhatia
00143973
22/12/2014
14
Shri Siddhartha Pandit
03562264
29/05/2019
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/ continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as 
to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs 
of the Company.
For Balika Sharma & Associates
Company Secretaries
Balika Sharma
Proprietor
FCS No: 4816
Place: New Delhi
C P No: 3222
Date: April 19, 2025
UDIN: F004816G000156561
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
189
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
PRICE WATERHOUSE & CO CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS LLP
To the Members of Havells India Limited
Auditor’s Certificate on compliance with conditions of Corporate Governance
1.	
This certificate is issued in accordance with the terms of our agreement dated April 14, 2025.
2.	
The accompanying Statement containing the details of compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance of Havells India 
Limited (the “Company") for the year ended March 31, 2025 (the “Statement”) has been prepared by the Management of the 
Company in connection with the requirements for the Company’s compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance set out in 
Regulations 17, 17A, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 24A, 25, 26, 26A, 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 
and para C, D and E of Schedule V (“the Conditions of Corporate Governance") in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as amended) (“the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015”), as communicated 
to us by the Management vide email dated March 17, 2025 (the 'Request') as per requirement of para E of Schedule V of SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 2015 (‘Requirement’).
Management’s Responsibility for the Statement
3.	
The preparation of the Statement is the responsibility of the Management of the Company including the creation and maintenance 
of all accounting and other records supporting its contents. This responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance 
of internal control and procedures to ensure the Company’s compliance with the Conditions of Corporate Governance listed in SEBI 
Listing Regulations, 2015.
4.	
The Management is also responsible for ensuring that the Company complies with the Conditions of Corporate Governance in the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, and that it provides complete and accurate information as requested.
Auditors’ Responsibility
5.	
Pursuant to the Request, it is our responsibility to examine the Statement and the underlying audited books of account and records 
of the Company and certify whether the Company has complied with the Conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in SEBI 
Listing Regulations, 2015, as set out in the Statement.
6.	
The financial statements relating to the books of account and records referred to in paragraph 5 above have been audited by us 
pursuant to the requirements of Companies Act, 2013, on which we issued an unmodified audit opinion vide our report dated April 
22, 2025. Our audit of these financial statements has been conducted in accordance with the Standards on Auditing referred to in 
Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable authoritative pronouncements issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“ICAI”). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
7.	
We conducted our examination in accordance with the ‘Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes’ and, to the 
extent considered applicable, the ‘Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance’, both issued by the ICAI. The ‘Guidance 
Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes’ requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics 
issued by the ICAI.
8.	
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1 ‘Quality Control for Firms 
that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements’.
9.	
Our examination, as referred to in paragraph 7 above, is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of 
the Company.
Conclusion
10.	 Based on our examination as set out in paragraphs 7 and 9 above and the information and explanations given to us, we certify 
that the Company has complied with the Conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, as 
set out in the Statement.
11.	 We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness 
with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Restriction on Use
12.	 Our obligations in respect of this certificate are entirely separate from, and our responsibility and liability is in no way changed by any 
other role we may have as auditors of the Company or otherwise. Nothing in this certificate nor anything said or done in the course 
of or in connection with the services that are the subject of this certificate, will extend any duty of care we may have in our capacity 
as auditors of the Company. 
13.	 This certificate has been addressed to the members of the Company and issued at the request of the Board of Directors of the 
Company solely to be annexed with the Director's report to enable the Company to comply with its obligations under SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 2015. Our certificate should not be used by any other person or for any other purpose. We do not accept or assume 
any liability or duty of care for any other purpose or to any person other than the Company.
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/ E-300009
Sougata Mukherjee
Partner
Place: Noida 	
Membership Number: 057084
Date: April 22, 2025 	
UDIN: 25057084BMOASO3543
Havells India Limited
190
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Havells India Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
Opinion 
1.	
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial 
statements of Havells India Limited (“the Company”), 
which comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at 
March 31, 2025, and the Standalone Statement of Profit 
and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the 
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity and the 
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows for the year then 
ended, and notes to the financial statements, including 
material accounting policy information and other 
explanatory information. 
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
standalone financial statements give the information required 
by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so 
required and give a true and fair view in conformity with 
the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the 
state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2025, and 
total comprehensive income (comprising of profit and other 
comprehensive income), changes in equity and its cash 
flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the 
Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit 
of the Financial Statements” section of our report. We are 
independent of the Company in accordance with the Code 
of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India together with the ethical requirements that are 
relevant to our audit of the financial statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters 
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgement, were of most significance in our 
audit of the standalone financial statements of the current 
period. These matters were addressed in the context 
of our audit of the standalone financial statements as a 
whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not 
provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have 
determined the matter described below to be the key 
audit matter to be communicated in our report.
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of impairment of goodwill, intangible assets 
with indefinite useful lives and other non-financial 
assets of Lloyd Consumer business (Refer Note 4 to the 
standalone financial statements) 
As at March 31, 2025, the standalone financial statements 
include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives 
and other non-financial assets pertaining to Lloyd Consumer 
business amounting to ` 310.47 crores, ` 1,029.00 crores 
and ` 909.22 crores respectively. 
Considering the requirements of Indian Accounting Standard 
(Ind AS) - 36 'Impairment of Assets', the management 
tested the above-mentioned assets for impairment using a 
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model. Based on such test, 
the recoverable amount of the Cash Generating Unit (CGU) 
is higher than the carrying amount of the said assets and, 
accordingly, no adjustment for impairment is necessary. 
We considered this as a key audit matter because of the 
significant carrying amount of the above-mentioned assets 
and high estimation uncertainty in assumptions used such as 
discount rate, rate of growth over the estimation period and 
terminal growth rate which are affected by future market and 
economic conditions and, hence, are inherently uncertain. 
Our audit procedures among others, included the following:
a.	
Understanding and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal controls over the impairment 
assessment process, including preparation of the DCF 
model; 
b.	
Evaluating the Company's accounting policy in respect 
of impairment assessment of goodwill, intangible assets 
with indefinite useful lives and other non-financial assets; 
c.	
Understanding 
the 
cash 
flow 
projections 
and 
assumptions used in the DCF model, testing the 
mathematical accuracy and reviewing the report of the 
management expert;
d.	
Together with auditor's valuation experts, testing the 
appropriateness of the DCF model and key assumptions 
therein and performing sensitivity analysis over key 
assumptions within a reasonable and foreseeable range 
to corroborate that the recoverable amount of the CGU is 
not materially different to the Company's valuation; and 
e.	
Testing related presentation and disclosures in the 
standalone financial statements. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
191
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Other Information
5.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Annual report, but does not 
include the financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we do not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with 
our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is 
to read the other information and, in doing so, consider 
whether the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained 
in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially 
misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, 
we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this 
other information, we are required to report that fact. We 
have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of management and those charged 
with governance for the financial statements
6.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to 
the preparation of these standalone financial statements 
that give a true and fair view of the financial position, 
financial performance, changes in equity and cash flows 
of the Company in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian 
Accounting Standards specified under Section 133 of 
the Act. This responsibility also includes maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the 
Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant 
to the preparation and presentation of the financial 
statements that give a true and fair view and are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
7.	
In preparing the financial statements, management 
is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless management either 
intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, 
or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
8.	
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for 
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial 
statements
9.	
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and 
to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when 
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
financial statements. 
10.	 As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional 
judgement 
and 
maintain 
professional 
scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	
•	
Identify 
and 
assess 
the 
risks 
of 
material 
misstatement of the financial statements, whether 
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit 
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain 
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from 
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control. 
 
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures that 
are appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 
143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for 
expressing our opinion on whether the Company has 
adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls.
 
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by 
management. 
 
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report 
to the related disclosures in the financial statements 
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Company to cease to continue as a going 
concern. 
 
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the financial statements 
represent the underlying transactions and events in 
a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Havells India Limited
192
11.	 We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit. 
12.	 We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to 
communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
13.	 From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about 
the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated in 
our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
14.	 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government 
of India in terms of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of 
the Act, we give in the Annexure B a statement on the 
matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to 
the extent applicable. 
15.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that: 
	
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge 
and belief were necessary for the purposes of our 
audit. 
	
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as 
it appears from our examination of those books, 
except for the matters stated in paragraph 15(h)
(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as 
amended).
	
(c)	
The Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the Standalone Statement 
of Changes in Equity and the Standalone Statement 
of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account. 
	
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Indian Accounting 
Standards specified under Section 133 of the Act. 
	
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on March 31, 2025, taken 
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the 
directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025, from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164(2) of the Act. 
	
(f)	
With respect to the maintenance of accounts and 
other matters connected therewith, reference is 
made to our remarks in paragraph 15(h)(vi) below on 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended).
	
(g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements of the 
Company and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure 
A”. 
	
(h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
(as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given 
to us: 
	
	
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position in its 
financial statements – Refer Note 32A to the 
financial statements; 
	
	
ii.	
The Company was not required to recognise 
a provision as at March 31, 2025 under the 
applicable law or Indian Accounting Standards, 
as it does not have any material foreseeable 
losses on long-term contract. The Company 
did not have any derivative contracts as at 
March 31, 2025.
	
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund by the 
Company during the year. 
	
	
iv.	
(a)	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
other than as disclosed in Note 33(19)(ii) 
to the standalone financial statements, no 
funds have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds or 
share premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the Company to or in 
any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, whether directly or indirectly, lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the 
like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
193
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
	
(b)	
The management has represented that, to the 
best of its knowledge and belief, no funds have 
been received by the Company from any person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding 
Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, 
whether directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries; and
	
(c)	
Based on such audit procedures that we considered 
reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us 
to believe that the representations under sub-clause 
(a) and (b) contain any material misstatement.
	
v.	
The dividend declared and paid by the Company 
during the year is in compliance with Section 123 of 
the Act.
	
vi.	
Based on our examination, which included test 
checks, the Company has used an accounting 
software for maintaining its books of account which 
has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility 
and that has operated throughout the year for 
all relevant transactions recorded in the software 
except: (a) that the audit trail for modification, if 
any, made by users having specific (debug) access 
was enabled from June 17, 2024; and (b) that 
the audit trail at database level contains only the 
modified values; and it did not operate during the 
period December 31, 2024 to February 28, 2025. 
During the course of our audit, we did not notice any 
instance of audit trail feature being tampered with 
for the period the audit trail was enabled. (Also, refer 
note 33(21) to the financial statements for reasons 
related to the exception at (b) above).
	
	
Additionally, the audit trail, where enabled, has been 
preserved by the company as per the statutory 
requirements for record retention. 
16.	 The Company has paid/ provided for managerial 
remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals 
mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with 
Schedule V to the Act. 
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/E-300009
Sougata Mukherjee
Partner
Place : Noida
Membership Number: 057084
Date : April 22, 2025
UDIN: 25057084BMOASK5835
Havells India Limited
194
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 15(g) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members 
of Havells India Limited on the standalone financial statements as of and for the year ended 
March 31, 2025
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to Financial Statements under clause (i) of sub-section 
3 of Section 143 of the Act
1.	
We have audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements of Havells India Limited 
(“the Company”) as of March 31, 2025 in conjunction 
with our audit of the standalone financial statements of 
the Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
2.	
The 
Company’s 
management 
is 
responsible 
for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) issued by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly 
and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted 
our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the 
Standards on Auditing specified under Section 143(10) 
of the Act to the extent applicable to an audit of internal 
financial controls, both applicable to an audit of internal 
financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements was established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects. 
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls system with reference to financial statements 
and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
included obtaining an understanding of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements, assessing 
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing 
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. The 
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls 
system with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to financial statements
6.	
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain 
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, 
and that receipts and expenditures of the company 
are being made only in accordance with authorisations 
of management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a 
material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to financial statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements, including 
the possibility of collusion or improper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to error 
or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections 
of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements to future periods are 
subject to the risk that the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements may become 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
195
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the 
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may 
deteriorate. 
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material 
respects, adequate internal financial controls system 
with reference to financial statements and such internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based 
on the internal control over financial reporting criteria 
established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note issued by ICAI.
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/E-300009
Sougata Mukherjee
Partner
Place: Noida
Membership Number: 057084
Date: April 22, 2025
UDIN: 25057084BMOASK5835
Havells India Limited
196
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 14 of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the members 
of Havells India Limited on the standalone financial statements as of and for the year ended 
March 31, 2025
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and 
furnished by the Company, and the books of account and 
records examined by us during the course of our audit, and to 
the best of our knowledge and belief, we report that:
i. 	
(a) (A) 	
The Company is maintaining proper records 
showing full particulars, including quantitative 
details and situation, of Property, Plant and 
Equipment.
(B)	 The Company is maintaining proper records showing full 
particulars of Intangible Assets.
(b) The Property, Plant and Equipment of the Company have 
been physically verified by the Management during the year. The 
discrepancies noticed on such verification were not material 
and have been properly dealt with in the books of account. In 
our opinion, the frequency of verification is reasonable.
(c) The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other than 
properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee), as 
disclosed in Note 3 to the standalone financial statements, are 
held in the name of the Company, except for the following :
Description of 
property
Gross carrying 
value (` crores)
Held in the name 
of
Whether promoter, 
director or their 
relative or employee
Period held 
Reason for not being 
held in the name of the 
Company
Building in 
Bengaluru
0.04
Mrs. Shakereh 
Shraddhanand
No
From April 01, 
2012
Refer note 3(vii) to the 
standalone financial 
statements.
Further, the Company has taken the following immovable properties on lease, but the lease agreement has not been duly executed 
in favour of the Company:
Description of 
property
Gross carrying 
value (right-of-use 
asset) (` crores)
Held 
in 
the 
name of
Whether promoter, 
director or their 
relative or employee
Period held 
Reason for not being 
held in the name of the 
Company
Building in 
Sahibabad
43.20
QRG Enterprises 
Limited
Promoter
From August 01, 
2007
Refer note 3(viii) to the 
standalone financial 
statements.
Building in Noida
96.79
QRG Enterprises 
Limited
Promoter
From July 01, 
2008
(d)	
The Company has chosen cost model for its Property, 
Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) and 
Intangible Assets. Consequently, the question of our 
commenting on whether the revaluation is based on the 
valuation by a Registered Valuer, or specifying the amount 
of change, if the change is 10% or more in the aggregate 
of the net carrying value of each class of Property, 
Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) or 
Intangible Assets does not arise. 
(e)	
No proceedings have been initiated on or are pending 
against the Company for holding benami property under 
the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 
(as amended in 2016) (formerly the Benami Transactions 
(Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988)) and Rules made 
thereunder, and therefore the question of our commenting 
on whether the Company has appropriately disclosed the 
details in the standalone financial statements does not 
arise. 
ii.	
(a)	
The physical verification of inventory, excluding 
stocks with third parties, has been conducted at 
reasonable intervals by the Management during the 
year and, in our opinion, the coverage and procedure 
of such verification by Management is appropriate. 
In respect of inventory lying with third parties, these 
have substantially been confirmed by them. The 
discrepancies noticed on physical verification of 
inventory as compared to book records were not 
10% or more in aggregate for each class of inventory. 
	
(b)	
During the year, the Company has not been 
sanctioned working capital limits in excess of ` 
5 crores, in aggregate from banks and financial 
institutions on the basis of security of current assets 
and accordingly, the question of our commenting on 
whether the quarterly returns or statements are in 
agreement with the unaudited books of account of 
the Company does not arise. 
iii.	
(a)	 The Company has made investments in one company 
during the year. The Company has not granted 
secured/ unsecured loans/advances in nature of 
loans, or stood guarantee, or provided security to any 
parties. Therefore, the reporting under clause 3(iii), (iii)
(a), (iii)(c), (iii)(d), (iii)(e) and (iii)(f) of the Order are not 
applicable to the Company.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
197
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
	
(b) 	 In respect of the aforesaid investments, the terms 
and conditions under which such investments were 
made are not prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
iv. 	 The Company has not granted any loan or provided any 
guarantee or security to the parties covered under Section 
185. Further, in our opinion, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of Sections 186 of the Companies Act, 
2013 in respect of investments made by it and the Company 
has not provided any loans, guarantees or security to the 
parties covered under Section 186 of the Act.
v.	
The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts 
which are deemed to be deposits referred in Sections 73, 
74, 75 and 76 of the Act and the Rules framed there under. 
vi.	
Pursuant to the rules made by the Central Government of 
India, the Company is required to maintain cost records 
as specified under Section 148(1) of the Act in respect 
of its certain products and services. We have broadly 
reviewed the same and are of the opinion that, prima 
facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been 
made and maintained. We have not, however, made 
a detailed examination of the records with a view to 
determine whether they are accurate or complete. 
vii.	
(a)	
In our opinion, the Company is regular in depositing 
the undisputed statutory dues, including goods 
and services tax, provident fund, employees’ state 
insurance, income tax, sales tax, service tax, duty 
of customs, duty of excise, value added tax, cess, 
and other statutory dues, as applicable, with the 
appropriate authorities.. 
	
(b)	
There are no statutory dues of provident fund, 
employees’ state insurance, service tax and cess 
which have not been deposited on account of any 
dispute. The particulars of other statutory dues 
referred to in sub-clause (a) as at March 31, 2025 
which have not been deposited on account of a 
dispute, are as follows:
Name of the statute
Nature of 
dues
Amount of 
demand 
without 
netting-off 
amount paid 
under protest 
(` crores)
Amount 
paid under 
protest 
(` crores)
Period to 
which the 
amount 
relates 
(Financial 
Year)
Forum where the dispute is pending
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax
3.30
-
2013-14 and  
2014-15
High Court of Delhi 
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax
6.52
-
2010-11
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi 
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax
13.89
-
2009-10
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeal), 
New Delhi
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax
2.50
-
2022-23
Commissioner of Income Tax, Central, 
New Delhi*
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax
0.01
0.01
2018-19
Assessing Officer, New Delhi
Central Excise Act, 1944
Excise duty 
0.23
-
2007-08 to  
2009-10
CESTAT, Chandigarh
Central Excise Act, 1944
Excise duty 
15.96
0.60
2015-16 to  
2017-18
CESTAT, (Karnataka)
The Customs Act, 1962
Customs 
duty
0.18
0.01
2017-18 to  
2019-20
Commissioner of Customs (Appeals), 
New Delhi
The Customs Act, 1962
Customs 
duty
4.22
0.07
2017-18
Central Excise and Service Tax Appellate 
Tribunal (CESTAT), Allahabad
The Customs Act, 1962
Customs 
duty
0.10
-
2018-19 to  
2020-21
Commissioner of Customs, Kandla, 
(Gujarat)
The Customs Act, 1962
Customs 
duty
0.95
-
2019-20 to  
2023-24
Additional Commissioner of Customs, 
New Delhi
Havells India Limited
198
Name of the statute
Nature of 
dues
Amount of 
demand without 
netting-off 
amount paid 
under protest (` 
crores)
Amount paid
under protest 
(` crores)
Period to which 
the amount relates 
(Financial Year)
Forum where the 
dispute is pending
The Customs Act, 1962
Customs duty 
5.98
2.4
2018-19 to  
2020-21
Central Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate 
Tribunal (CESTAT), Delhi
Bihar Value Added  
Tax Act, 2005
Sales tax
0.62
0.41
2016-17
Commissioner (Appeals), 
Patna
Haryana Value Added  
Tax Act, 2003
Sales tax 
0.25
0.15
2003-04,  
2005-06 to 2006-07
High Court (Punjab and 
Haryana)
Tamil Nadu Value Added 
Tax Act, 2006
Sales tax
0.02
-
2007-08
Assistant Commissioner, 
Sales Tax (Chennai)
Orissa Entry Tax  
Act, 1999
Entry Tax 
0.77
0.30
2008-09 to  
2011-12
High Court, Orissa
Haryana Local Area 
Development Tax  
Act, 2000
Local Area 
Development 
Tax 
0.12
-
2001-02
Joint Commissioner 
(Appeals), Faridabad
Goods and Services  
Tax Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.58
0.06
2017-18
High Court (Uttar 
Pradesh)
Name of the statute
Nature of 
dues
Amount of 
demand 
without netting-
off amount paid 
under protest 
(` crores)
Amount paid 
under protest 
(` crores)
Period to which 
the amount relates 
(Financial Year)
Forum where the dispute 
is pending
Goods and Services  
Tax Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.11
-
2019-20
Additional Commissioner 
(Appeals), Dehradun, 
Uttarakhand
Goods and Services  
Tax Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
2.38
0.05
2017-18 and  
2022-23
Joint Commissioner of State 
Tax, Alwar, Rajasthan
Goods and Services  
Tax Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.08
-
2017-18
Joint Commissioner 
(Appeals), SGST, Kerala
Goods and Services  
Tax Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.01
0.01
2017-18
Commissioner (Appeals), 
CGST, Ranchi, Jharkhand
Goods and Services  
Tax Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.44
0.02
2017-18
Joint Commissioner 
(Appeals), CGST, 
Hyderabad, Telangana
Goods and Services  
Tax Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.01
-
2020-21
Deputy Commissioner SGST, 
Hyderabad, Telangana
Goods and Services  
Tax Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.24
0.08
2017-18
Commissioner (Appeals) 
CGST, Guwahati
Goods and Services  
Tax Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.02
-
2017-18
Commissioner (Appeals) 
CGST, Jammu and Kashmir
Goods and Services  
Tax Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.06
-
2017-18
Commissioner (Appeals) 
CGST, Vijaywada
* Pending appeal filing
The above amounts contain interest and penalty where 
included in the order issued by the taxation authority to the 
Company.
viii.	 There are no transactions previously unrecorded in the 
books of account that have been surrendered or disclosed 
as income during the year in the tax assessments under 
the Income Tax Act, 1961. 
ix. (a) 	
As the Company did not have any loans or other 
borrowings from any lender during the year, the 
reporting under clause 3(ix)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	
On the basis of our audit procedures, we report that 
the Company has not been declared Wilful Defaulter 
by any bank or financial institution or government or 
any government authority.
	
(c) 	 The Company has not obtained any term loans. 
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(ix)(c) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
199
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
	
(d) 	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us, and the procedures performed by us, and on 
an overall examination of the standalone financial 
statements of the Company, the Company has 
not raised funds on short-term basis. Accordingly, 
reporting under clause 3(ix)(d) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company. 
	
(e) 	 On an overall examination of the standalone financial 
statements of the Company, we report that the 
Company has not taken any funds from any entity 
or person on account of or to meet the obligations 
of its subsidiaries. The Company did not have any 
associate or joint venture during the year. 
	
(f) 	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and procedures performed by us, we report that 
the Company has not raised loans during the year 
on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries. 
The Company did not have any associate or joint 
venture during the year. 
	
x.	
(a) 	 The Company has not raised any money by 
way of initial public offer or further public offer 
(including debt instruments) during the year. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 3(x)(a) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
	
(b)	
The Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares or fully 
or partially or optionally convertible debentures 
during the year. Accordingly, the reporting under 
clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
	
xi.	
(a)	
During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried 
out in accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing practices in India, we have neither 
come across any instance of material fraud 
by the Company or on the Company, noticed 
or reported during the year, nor have we been 
informed of any such case by the Management. 
	
	
(b)	
During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried 
out in accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing practices in India, a report under 
Section 143(12) of the Act, in Form ADT-4, as 
prescribed under rule 13 of Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014 was not required 
to be filed with the Central Government. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 3(xi)(b) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
	
(c) 	 During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company carried out in 
accordance with the generally accepted auditing 
practices in India, the Company has received 
whistle-blower complaints during the year, which 
have been considered by us for any bearing on 
our audit and reporting under this clause. 
	
xii.	 As the Company is not a Nidhi Company and 
the Nidhi Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it, the 
reporting under clause 3(xii) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
	
xiii.	 The Company has entered into transactions with 
related parties in compliance with the provisions 
of Sections 177 and 188 of the Act. The details 
of related party transactions have been disclosed 
in the standalone financial statements as required 
under Indian Accounting Standard 24 “Related Party 
Disclosures” specified under Section 133 of the Act.
	
xiv.	 (a)	
In our opinion, the Company has an internal 
audit system commensurate with the size and 
nature of its business.
	
	
(b)	
The reports of the Internal Auditor for the period 
under audit have been considered by us.
	
xv.	 In our opinion, the Company has not entered into any 
non-cash transactions with its directors or persons 
connected with him. Accordingly, the reporting on 
compliance with the provisions of Section 192 of the 
Act under clause 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
	
xvi.	 (a)	
The Company is not required to be registered 
under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of 
India Act, 1934. Accordingly, the reporting 
under clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
	
	
(b)	
The Company has not conducted non-banking 
financial / housing finance activities during the 
year. Accordingly, the reporting under clause 
3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
	
	
(c)	
The Company is not a Core Investment 
Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations 
made by the Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, 
the reporting under clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order 
is not applicable to the Company.
	
	
(d)	
In our opinion, the Group (as defined in the 
Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) 
Directions, 2016) does not have any CICs, 
which are part of the Group. Accordingly, the 
reporting under clause 3(xvi)(d) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
	
xvii.	 The Company has not incurred any cash losses in 
the financial year or in the immediately preceding 
financial year.
Havells India Limited
200
	
xviii.	There has been no resignation of the statutory 
auditors during the year and accordingly the 
reporting under clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not 
applicable.
	
xix.	 On the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and 
expected dates of realisation of financial assets 
and payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying the standalone financial statements, 
our knowledge of the Board of Directors and 
management plans and based on our examination 
of the evidence supporting the assumptions, 
nothing has come to our attention, which causes us 
to believe that any material uncertainty exists as on 
the date of the audit report that the Company is not 
capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date 
of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, 
however, state that this is not an assurance as to the 
future viability of the Company. We further state that 
our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of 
the audit report and we neither give any guarantee 
nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within 
a period of one year from the balance sheet date will 
get discharged by the Company as and when they 
fall due.
	
xx. 	 As at balance sheet date, the Company does not 
have any amount remaining unspent under Section 
135(5) of the Act. Accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(xx) of the Order is not applicable. 
	
xxi.	 The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not 
applicable in respect of audit of Standalone Financial 
Statements. Accordingly, no comment in respect of 
the said clause has been included in this report.
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/E-300009
Sougata Mukherjee
Partner
Place: Noida
Membership Number: 057084
Date: April 22, 2025
UDIN: 25057084BMOASK5835
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
201
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Balance Sheet
as at March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Notes
 AS AT 
March 31, 2025
 AS AT 
March 31, 2024
ASSETS
1	
Non-current assets
	
Property, plant and equipment
3
3,251.25 
2,606.18 
	
Capital work in progress
3
116.47 
296.91 
	
Goodwill 
4
310.47 
310.47 
	
Other intangible assets
4
1,065.23 
1,071.16 
	
Intangible assets under development 
5
1.72 
1.79 
	
Financial assets
7
	
(i)	
Investment in subsidiaries
7(A)
63.05 
 21.18 
	
(ii)	 Other Investments
7(B)
10.98 
 20.00 
	
(iii)	 Trade receivables
7(C)
0.39 
0.25 
	
(iv)	 Other financial assets
7(D)
36.14 
 32.86 
	
Contract assets 
6(B)
1.01 
 11.55 
	
Other non-current assets
8
97.01 
146.62 
	
Non Current tax assets (net)
9
22.97 
 34.92 
	
Total non current assets
4,976.69 
4,553.89 
2	
Current assets
	
Inventories
10
4,007.37 
3,408.52 
	
Financial assets
11
	
(i)	
Trade receivables
11(A)
1,253.60 
1,157.20 
	
(ii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
11(B)
781.72 
243.35 
	
(iii)	 Bank balances other than (ii) above
11(C)
2,570.86 
2,772.07 
	
(iv)	 Other financial assets
11(D)
5.65 
 20.99 
	
Contract assets
6(B)
11.33 
 27.54 
	
Other current assets
12
164.31 
234.09 
	
Total current assets
8,794.84 
7,863.76 
	
Assets classified as held for sale
13
3.42 
2.18 
8,798.26 
7,865.94 
	
Total assets
 13,774.95 
 12,419.83 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1	
Equity
14
	
Equity share capital
14(A)
62.69 
 62.67 
	
Other equity
14(B)
8,268.30 
7,375.78 
	
Total equity
8,330.99 
7,438.45 
2	
Liabilities
	
Non-current liabilities
	
Financial liabilities
15
	
(i)	
Lease liabilities
15(A)
241.00 
242.44 
	
(ii)	 Other financial liabilities
15(B)
2.26 
4.05 
	
Contract liabilities
6(C)
5.78 
4.64 
	
Provisions
16
54.74 
 87.72 
	
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
17
375.32 
357.52 
	
Other non-current liabilities
18
4.31 
6.48 
	
Total non current liabilities
683.41 
702.85 
	
Current liabilities
	
Financial liabilities
19
	
(i)	
Lease liabilities
19(A)
77.54 
 60.72 
	
(ii)	 Trade payables
19(B)
	
	
a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises; and
198.88 
203.70 
	
	
b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
2,841.19 
2,487.00 
	
(iii)	 Other financial liabilities
19(C)
865.34 
787.68 
	
Contract liabilities
6(C)
104.25 
 98.73 
	
Provisions
20
334.90 
277.67 
	
Current tax liabilities (net)
21
62.68 
 85.20 
	
Other current liabilities
22
275.77 
277.83 
	
Total current liabilities
4,760.55 
4,278.53 
	
Total liabilities
5,443.96 
4,981.38 
	
Total equity and liabilities
 13,774.95 
 12,419.83 
	
Summary of material accounting policies
2
	
Commitments and contingencies
32
	
Other notes to Financial statements
33
The above standalone balance sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 22, 2025	
Date: April 22, 2025	
Manish Kaushik
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Accounts
HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED
(CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304)
Havells India Limited
202
The above standalone statement of profit and loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 22, 2025	
Date: April 22, 2025	
Manish Kaushik
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Accounts
Statement of Profit and Loss
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Notes
 Year ended 
March 31, 2025
 Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I
INCOME
Revenue from operations
23
21,745.81 
18,549.90 
Other income
24
302.47 
248.73 
Total Income
22,048.28 
18,798.63 
II
EXPENSES
Cost of raw materials and components consumed
25
11,999.30 
 9,873.77 
Purchase of traded goods
26
 3,087.48 
 2,420.02 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, traded goods and work in progress
27
(498.13)
242.73 
Employee benefits expense
28
 1,851.82 
 1,541.06 
Finance costs
29
 43.24 
45.71 
Depreciation and amortization expenses
30
398.72 
338.48 
Other expenses
31
 3,113.84 
 2,609.41 
Net impairment losses on financial and contract assets
31A
 42.92
17.62 
Total expenses
20,039.19 
17,088.80 
III
Profit before tax 
 2,009.09 
 1,709.83 
IV
Income tax expense
17
Current tax 
502.45 
440.61 
Deferred tax {(refer note 17(d)}
 17.80 
(3.99)
Total tax expense
520.25 
436.62 
V
Profit for the year
 1,488.84 
 1,273.21 
VI
Other comprehensive income 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
i)	
Re-measurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plans {refer note 33(4)}
 (29.90)
(6.43)
ii)	
Income tax effect on above {refer note no 17(b)}
7.54 
 1.62 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax
 (22.36)
(4.81)
VII
Total comprehensive income for the year
 1,466.48 
 1,268.40 
VIII
Earnings per equity share (EPS) {refer note no. 33 (12)}
(nominal value of share ` 1/-)
Basic EPS (`)
 23.75 
20.32 
Diluted EPS (`)
 23.74 
20.32 
Summary of material accounting policies
2
Commitments and contingencies
32
Other notes to accounts
33
HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED
(CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
203
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended March 31, 2025
A)	 Equity Share Capital
(` in crores)
Particulars
Notes
 Numbers 
Amount
As at April 01, 2023
14(A)
62,65,09,738 
62.65 
Add: Exercise of employee stock purchase plan - proceeds received 
1,73,292 
0.02 
As at March 31, 2024
62,66,83,030 
62.67 
Add: Exercise of employee stock purchase plan - proceeds received 
2,58,702 
0.03 
March 31, 2025
62,69,41,732 
62.69 
B)	 Other Equity
(` in crores)
Particulars 
Reserves and surplus 
Total 
 Notes  Capital 
reserve 
Securities 
premium 
 General 
reserve 
 Share options 
outstanding 
account 
Retained 
earnings 
Total 
As at April 01, 2023 
14(B)
 7.63 
148.15 
722.72 
2.30 
5,671.03 6,551.83 
Profit for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
1,273.21 1,273.21 
Other comprehensive income for the year 
Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit 
plans net of tax 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4.81)
(4.81)
Total comprehensive income for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
1,268.40 1,268.40 
Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners: 
Final and interim dividend paid during the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (470.01)
 (470.01)
Equity shares issued under employee stock 
purchase plan 
 - 
21.30 
 - 
7.67 
- 
 28.97 
Options vested and exercised during the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3.41)
- 
(3.41)
As at March 31, 2024 
 7.63 
169.45 
722.72 
6.56 
6,469.42 7,375.78 
Profit for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
1,488.84 1,488.84 
Other comprehensive income for the year 
Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined 
benefit plans net of tax 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (22.36)
 (22.36)
Total Comprehensive income for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
1,466.48 1,466.48 
Transaction with owners in their capacity as owners: 
Final and interim dividend paid during the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (626.93)
 (626.93)
Equity shares issued under employee stock 
purchase plan 
 - 
42.52 
 - 
 18.17 
- 
 60.69 
Options vested and exercised during the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (7.72)
- 
(7.72)
As at March 31, 2025 
 7.63 
211.97 
722.72 
 17.01 
7,308.97 8,268.30 
Summary of material accounting policies
2
Commitments and contingencies
32
Other notes to accounts
33
The above standalone statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 22, 2025	
Date: April 22, 2025	
Manish Kaushik
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Accounts
Havells India Limited
204
Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
(` in crores)
 Year ended 
March 31, 2025
 Year ended 
March 31, 2024
A.
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax
2,009.09 
1,709.83 
Adjustments for
Depreciation and amortisation expense 
398.72 
338.48 
Loss /(gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (net) 
 15.10 
 (10.27)
Unrealized foreign exchange loss /(gain) (net) 
 (5.22)
(0.31)
Fair value (gain)/loss on financial assets
 9.03 
-
Net impairment losses on financial and contract assets 
 42.92 
 17.62 
Employee stock purchase plan expense 
 10.45 
 4.26 
Insurance claim received
 (17.05)
-
Interest income on bank deposits and investment 
 (225.57)
 (184.88)
Finance cost 
 43.24 
 45.55 
Operating Profit
2,280.71 
1,920.28 
Change in operating assets and liabilities
(Increase)/ Decrease in trade receivables 
 (138.50)
 (200.65)
(Increase)/ Decrease in contract assets 
 26.75 
 12.39 
(Increase)/ Decrease in other financial assets 
 (0.43)
 63.07 
(Increase)/ Decrease in non current assets 
 0.47 
 10.92 
(Increase)/ Decrease in other current assets 
 69.78 
 (58.94)
(Increase)/ Decrease in inventories 
 (598.85)
299.95 
Increase/ (Decrease) in trade payables 
357.93 
 52.27 
Increase/ (Decrease) in financial liabilities 
 78.97 
161.00 
Increase/ (Decrease) in other liabilities 
 (4.23)
138.84 
Increase/ (Decrease) in contract liabilities 
 6.66 
 16.74 
Increase/ (Decrease) in provisions 
(13.17)
 (64.78)
Cash generated from operations
2,066.09 
2,351.09 
Income tax paid (net of refunds) 
 (505.48)
 (391.94)
Net cash inflow from operating activities (A)
1,560.61 
1,959.15 
B.
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Payment for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
 (752.55)
 (786.05)
Receipt of grant related to assets 
 -
 3.21 
Investment in subsidiary 
(41.87)
 (20.73)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 
 12.19 
 23.80 
Investment in fixed deposits with bank and financial institution 
 180.15 
(1,037.08)
Receipt of insurance claim related to assets 
32.85
 31.27 
Interest on fixed deposit and investment received 
239.18 
151.01 
Net Cash inflow /(outflow) from Investing Activities (B)
 (330.05)
(1,634.57)
C.
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from exercise of employee stock purchase plan - share capital 
and securities premium received
 42.54 
 21.32 
Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities 
(67.89)
 (51.33)
Payment of interest portion of lease liabilities 
(28.27)
 (25.82)
Interest paid 
 (7.45)
(7.62)
Dividends paid to Company's shareholders 
 (626.81)
 (470.10)
Net cash inflow /(outflow) from Financing Activities (C)
 (687.88)
 (533.55)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
205
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
(` in crores)
 Year ended 
March 31, 2025
 Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
542.68 
 (208.97)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
243.35 
456.86 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents held in 
foreign currency
 (4.31)
(4.54)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
781.72 
243.35 
Non Cash financing and investing activities
Acquisition of right-of-use assets
108.61 
133.72 
Notes :
1	
The above statement of cash flows has been prepared under the “Indirect Method” as set out in Indian Accounting Standard-7, “Statement 
of Cash Flows”.
2	
Components of cash and cash equivalents :-
(` in crores)
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash and cash equivalents 
Balances with banks: 
Current accounts 
 37.93 
 33.92 
Cash credit accounts 
 31.67 
 69.94 
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months 
711.94 
139.36 
Cash on hand 
 0.18 
 0.13 
781.72 
243.35 
The above standalone statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 22, 2025	
Date: April 22, 2025	
Manish Kaushik
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Accounts
Havells India Limited
206
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
1.	
Corporate Information
	
Havells India Limited (‘the Company’) is a public limited 
Company domiciled in India and incorporated on August 
08, 1983 under the provisions of the Companies Act, 
1956 having its registered office at 904, 9th Floor, Surya 
Kiran Building, K.G. Marg, Connaught Place, New 
Delhi-110001. The Company is listed on BSE Limited 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited. The CIN 
of the Company is L31900DL1983PLC016304
	
The 
Company 
is 
consumer 
electrical/electronics 
and power distribution equipment manufacturer with 
products ranging from Industrial and Domestic Circuit 
Protection Switchgears, Cables, Motors, Pumps, Solar 
Products, Fans, Power Capacitors, LED Lamps and 
Luminaries for Domestic, Commercial and Industrial 
applications, Modular Switches, Water Heaters, Coolers 
and Domestic Appliances, Personal Grooming, Air 
Purifier, Water Purifier, Air conditioner, Television, Washing 
machine and Refrigerator covering the entire range of 
household, commercial and industrial electrical needs. 
	
The Company’s manufacturing facilities are located at 
Alwar, Ghiloth and Neemrana in Rajasthan, Haridwar 
in Uttarakhand, Sahibabad in Uttar Pradesh, Baddi in 
Himachal Pradesh, Faridabad in Haryana, Sri City in 
Andhra Pradesh, Tumakuru in Karnataka. The research 
and development facilities are located at Noida (Uttar 
Pradesh), Bangalore and Ghiloth (Rajasthan)
2.	
Summary of material accounting policies
	
This note provides a list of the material accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind-AS) Standalone financial statements. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all the 
years except where newly issued accounting standard is 
initially adopted.
	
2.01	Basis of preparation of Standalone Financial 
Statements
	
	
These standalone financial statements of the 
Company have been prepared in accordance 
with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) 
notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from time to 
time) and presentation requirements of Division II of 
Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS 
compliant Schedule III). 
	
	
These standalone financial statement are separate 
financial statements including Havells Employees 
Welfare Trust prepared in accordance with 
Ind AS-27 “Separate Financial Statements”.
	
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a 
historical cost convention, except for the following 
assets and liabilities:
	
	
i)	
Certain financial assets and liabilities that 
is measured at fair value/ subsequently 
measured at amortized cost
	
	
ii)	
Assets held for sale-measured at fair value 
less cost to sell
	
	
iii)	
Defined benefit plans-plan assets measured 
at fair value
	
	
iv)	
Share based payments
	
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide notification 
dated 9 September 2024 and 28 September 
2024 notified the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Second Amendment Rules, 2024 and 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Third 
Amendment Rules, 2024, respectively, which 
amended/ notified certain accounting standards 
(see below), and are effective tor annual repoting 
periods beginning on or after April 01, 2024:
	
	
-	
Insurance contracts - Ind AS 117; and
	
	
-	
Lease Liability in Sale and Leaseback — 
Amendments to Ind AS 116
	
	
These amendments did not have any material 
impact on the amounts recognised in prior periods 
and are not expected to significantly affect the 
current or future periods.
	
2.02	Property, plant and equipment
	
	
Freehold Land is carried at historical cost. All 
other items of Property, Plant and equipment are 
stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and 
accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
	
	
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is 
calculated on prorata basis on straight-line method 
using the useful lives of the assets estimated by 
management. The useful life is as follows:
Assets 
Useful life (in years)
Building
30 and 60
Plant and Equipment
15
Moulds and Dies
6
Furniture and Fixtures
10
Vehicles
8 and 10
R &D Equipment
5 and15 
Office Equipment
3 and 5
Mobile Phones
3
Electric Fans and 
Installations
10 
Computers
3
Laptops
4
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
207
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
The useful lives of all the assets except moulds 
and dies, mobile phones and laptops have been 
determined as those specified by part ‘C’ of 
Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. In respect 
of moulds and dies and mobile phones, useful 
lives are lower than those specified by schedule II 
to the Companies Act 2013 and are depreciated 
over the estimated useful lives of 6 years, 3 years 
respectively, in respect of laptop useful life is 
more than those specified by schedule II to the 
Company Act 2013 and are depreciated over the 
estimated useful life of 4 years, in order to reflect 
the actual usage of assets. The residual values are 
not more than 5% of the original cost of the assets. 
The asset’s residual values and useful lives are 
reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate.
	
	
Lease hold improvements are depreciated on 
straight line basis over shorter of the asset’s useful 
life and their lease term unless the entity expects to 
use the asset beyond the lease term.
	
	
Leasehold land is amortized on a straight line basis 
over the unexpired period of their respective lease 
ranging from 90-99 years.
	
2.03	Intangible assets
	
	
Separately acquired intangible assets
	
	
Intangible assets with finite useful life are amortized 
on a straight line basis over their estimated useful 
life as under
Assets 
Useful life (in years)
Computer Software
6
R&D Software
6
Distributor/ Dealer 
Network
8
Non-Compete Fee
7
Brand and Trademarks
Indefinite
	
	
Brand and Trademarks 
	
	
Brand and Trademarks acquired in business 
combination are initially recognised at fair value at 
the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, 
brand and trademark are carried at the above 
recognised value less accumulated amortization 
and accumulated impairment losses, if any. These 
Brand and trademarks have been in existence 
for considerable period and Company intends to 
continue use this intangible assets. Consequently 
it is believed that they have an indefinite life and 
are not amortised. Instead impairment testing 
is performed annually and whenever a triggering 
event has occurred to determine whether the 
carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
	
	
Distributor/ Dealer Network
	
	
Distributor/ Dealer Network acquired in business 
combination are initially recognised at fair value at 
the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, 
Distributor/ Dealer Network are carried at the above 
recognised value less accumulated amortization 
and accumulated impairment losses, if any. They 
are amortised on a straight line basis over their 
estimated useful life of 8 years assessed by the 
management.
	
	
Goodwill 
	
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the 
excess of the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred over the fair value of net identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If the fair 
value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the 
aggregate consideration transferred, the Company 
re-assesses whether it has correctly identified all of 
the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed 
and reviews the procedures used to measure 
the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition 
date. If the reassessment still results in an excess 
of the fair value of net assets acquired over the 
aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain 
is recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity as capital reserve. However, 
if there is no clear evidence of bargain purchase, 
the entity recognizes the gain directly in equity as 
capital reserve, without routing the same through 
other comprehensive income.
	
	
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at 
cost less any accumulated impairment losses, 
if any. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
goodwill acquired in a business combination 
is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each 
of the Company’s cash-generating units that 
are expected to benefit from the combination, 
irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of 
the acquire are assigned to those units. 
	
	
A cash generating unit to which goodwill has 
been allocated is tested for impairment annually or 
earlier, when there is an indication that the unit may 
be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit is less than its carrying amount, 
the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the 
unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata 
based on the carrying amount of each asset in the 
unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised 
in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognised for 
goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
Havells India Limited
208
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-
generating unit and part of the operation within that 
unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with 
the disposed operation is included in the carrying 
amount of the operation when determining the gain 
or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these 
circumstances is measured based on the relative 
values of the disposed operation and the portion 
of the cash-generating unit retained.
	
2.04	Impairment of non- financial assets
	
	
The Company assesses, at each reporting date, 
whether there is an indication that an asset may 
be impaired. If any indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, 
the Company estimates the asset’s recoverable 
amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the 
higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s 
(CGU) fair value less costs of disposal and its value 
in use. The recoverable amount is determined 
for an individual asset, unless the asset does not 
generate cash inflows that are largely independent 
of those from other assets or groups of assets. 
When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU 
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is 
considered impaired and is written down to its 
recoverable amount.
	
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value 
less costs of disposal, recent market transactions 
are taken into account. If no such transactions 
can be identified, an appropriate valuation model 
is used. These calculations are corroborated by 
valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly 
traded companies or other available fair value 
indicators.
	
	
The Company bases its impairment calculation on 
detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which 
are prepared separately for each of the Company’s 
CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated. 
These budgets and forecast calculations generally 
cover a period of five years. For longer periods, a 
long-term growth rate is calculated and applied 
to project future cash flows after the fifth year. To 
estimate cash flow projections beyond periods 
covered by the most recent budgets/forecasts, the 
Company extrapolates cash flow projections in the 
budget using a steady or declining growth rate for 
subsequent years, unless an increasing rate can 
be justified. In any case, this growth rate does not 
exceed the long-term average growth rate for the 
products, industries, or country or countries in 
which the Company operates, or for the market in 
which the asset is used.
	
	
Impairment losses of continuing operations, 
including impairment on inventories, are recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss, except for 
properties previously revalued with the revaluation 
surplus taken to OCI. For such properties, the 
impairment is recognised in OCI up to the amount 
of any previous revaluation surplus.
	
	
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and 
when circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value may be impaired. Impairment is determined 
for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount 
of each CGU (or group of CGUs) to which the 
goodwill relates. When the recoverable amount 
of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an 
impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses 
relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future 
periods.
	
	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are 
tested for impairment annually as at March 31 
at the CGU level, as appropriate, and when 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may 
be impaired.
	
2.05	Financial instruments 
	
(i)	
Financial Assets
	
	
The Company classifies its financial assets in the 
following measurement categories:
	
	
-	
Those to be measured subsequently at fair 
value through profit or loss
	
	
-	
Those measured at amortized cost
	
	
The classification of financial assets at initial 
recognition depends on the financial asset’s 
contractual cash flow characteristics and the 
Company’s business model for managing them
	
	
Initial recognition measurement
	
	
With the exception of trade receivables that do not 
contain a material financing component or for which 
the Company has applied the practical expedient, 
the Company initially measures a financial asset at 
its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset 
not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction 
costs. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
209
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
Trade receivables that do not contain a material 
financing component or for which the Company 
has applied the practical expedient are measured 
at the transaction price determined under Ind AS 
115. Refer to the accounting policies in section 
‘Revenue from contracts with customers’.
	
	
Financial 
assets 
at 
amortised 
cost 
(debt 
instruments)
	
	
A ‘financial asset’ is measured at the amortised 
cost if both the following conditions are met:
	
	
a)	
Business Model Test : The objective is 
to hold the financial asset to collect the 
contractual cash flows (rather than to sell the 
instrument prior to its contractual maturity to 
realize its fair value changes) and;
	
	
b)	
Cash 
flow 
characteristics 
test: 
The 
contractual terms of the financial asset give 
rise on specific dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on 
principal amount outstanding.
	
	
This category is most relevant to the Company. 
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with net 
changes in fair value recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss. 
	
	
ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit 
exposures for which there has not been a material 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs 
are provided for credit losses that result from 
default events that are possible within the next 
12-months (a 12-month ECL). For those credit 
exposures for which there has been a material 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss 
allowance is required for credit losses expected 
over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective 
of the timing of the default (a lifetime ECL).
	
	
The Company follows “simplified approach” for 
recognition of impairment loss allowance on:
	
	
Trade receivables or contract revenue receivables; 
Trade receivables which are held to collect and 
sale basis accounted for as FVTPL
	
	
Under the simplified approach, the Company 
does not track changes in credit risk. Rather, it 
recognizes impairment loss allowance based on 
lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its 
initial recognition. The Company uses a provision 
matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on 
the portfolio of trade receivables. The provision 
matrix is based on its historically observed default 
rates over the expected life of trade receivable and 
is adjusted for forward looking estimates. At every 
reporting date, the historical observed default rates 
are updated and changes in the forward looking 
estimates are analysed.
	
2.06	Inventories
	
	
The costs of individual items of inventory are 
determined on a moving weightage average 
basis. Volume rebates or discounts are taken into 
account when estimating the cost of inventory if 
it is probable that they have been earned and will 
take effect.See note 2.12(i) for the other accounting 
policies for inventories.
	
2.07	Revenue from contract with customers
	
	
The Company manufactures/ trades and sells 
a range of consumer electrical and electronic 
products. Revenue from contracts with customers 
involving sale of these products is recognized at a 
point in time when control of the product has been 
transferred, and there are no unfulfilled obligation 
that could affect the customer’s acceptance of 
the products which usually happen on delivery/ 
despatch of the goods as applicable. The Company 
also provides installation, annual maintenance and 
warranty services that are either sold separately 
or bundled together with the sale of goods. The 
Company recognizes these service revenue from 
sales of services over a period of time, because the 
customer simultaneously receives and consumes 
the benefits provided by the Company. Revenue 
from such services is recognised when the 
Company has objective evidence that all criterion 
for acceptance has been satisfied. A receivable 
is recognised when the control of the product is 
transferred as the consideration is unconditional 
and payment becomes due upon passage of time 
as per the terms of contract with customers.
	
	
(a)	
Sale of goods
	
	
	
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised at 
the point in time when control of the goods 
is transferred to the customer, generally 
on delivery of the goods and there are no 
unfulfilled obligations.
	
	
	
The Company considers, whether there 
are other promises in the contract in which 
there are separate performance obligations, 
Havells India Limited
210
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
to which a portion of the transaction price 
needs to be allocated. In determining the 
transaction price for the sale of goods, 
the Company allocates a portion of the 
transaction price to different performance 
obligations goods bases on its relative 
standalone prices and also considers the 
following:-
	
	
(i)	
Variable consideration
	
	
	
The Company recognizes revenue from the 
sale of goods measured at the standalone 
selling price of the consideration received or 
receivable, net of returns and allowances, 
trade discounts and volume rebates. If the 
consideration in a contract includes a variable 
amount, the Company estimates the amount 
of consideration to which it will be entitled 
in exchange for transferring the goods to 
the customer. The variable consideration 
is estimated at contract inception and 
constrained until it is highly probable that 
a material revenue reversal in the amount 
of cumulative revenue recognised will not 
occur when the associated uncertainty with 
the variable consideration is subsequently 
resolved. The Company operates several 
sales incentive programmes wherein the 
customers are eligible for several benefits 
on achievement of underlying conditions as 
prescribed in the scheme programme such 
as credit notes, reimbursement, investments 
etc. Revenue from contract with customer is 
presented after deducting cost of all these 
schemes.
	
	
(ii)	
Warranty obligations
	
	
	
The 
Company 
generally 
provides 
for 
warranties for general repair of defects. These 
warranties are assurance-type warranties 
under Ind AS 115, which are accounted 
for under Ind AS 37 (Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets). However, 
in certain non-standard contracts in respect 
of sale of consumer durable goods, the 
Company provides extended warranties and 
such warranties are termed as service-type 
warranties and therefore, accounted for as 
separate performance obligations to which 
the Company allocates a portion of the 
transaction price. Revenue from service-type 
warranties is recognised over the period in 
which the service is provided based on the 
time elapsed
	
	
(iii)	
Singificant Financing Components
	
	
	
In respect of short-term advances from its 
customers, using the practical expedient in 
Ind AS 115, the Company does not adjust 
the promised amount of consideration for 
the effects of a material financing component 
if it expects, at contract inception, that the 
period between the transfer of the promised 
good or service to the customer and when 
the customer pays for that good or service 
will be within normal operating cycle.
	
	
	
In respect of long term contracts, the 
transaction price for these contracts is 
discounted, using the interest rate implicit 
in the contract (i.e., the interest rate that 
discounts the cash selling price of the 
equipment to the amount paid in advance).
	
	
	
No material element of financing is deemed 
present as the sales are made with a credit 
term of 21 to 90 days, which is consistent 
with market practice.
	
	
(b)	
Sale of services
	
	
	
The Company provides installation, annual 
maintenance 
and 
extended 
warranty 
services that are sold separately. The 
Company recognizes revenue from sales of 
services over time, because the customer 
simultaneously receives and consumes the 
benefits provided by the Company. Revenue 
from services related activities is recognised 
as and when services are rendered and 
on the basis of contractual terms with the 
parties.
	
	
(c)	
Contract balances
	
	
	
A contract asset is the right to consideration 
in 
exchange 
for 
goods 
or 
services 
transferred to the customer. Contract assets 
are in the nature of unbilled receivables, 
which arises when Company satisfies a 
performance obligation but does not have 
an unconditional rights to consideration. 
A receivables represents the Company’s 
right to an amount of consideration that 
is unconditional. Contract assets are 
subject to impairment assessment. Refer 
to accounting policies on impairment 
of financial assets in section (Financial 
instruments 
– 
initial 
recognition 
and 
subsequent measurement).
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
211
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods 
or services to a customer for which the Company 
has received consideration (or an amount of 
consideration is due) from the customer. If a 
customer pays consideration before the Company 
transfers goods or services to the customer, a 
contract liability is recognised when the payment is 
made or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). 
Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when 
the Company performs under the contract (i.e., 
transfers control of the related goods or services to 
the customer).
	
	
A trade receivable is recognised if an amount of 
consideration that is unconditional (i.e., only the 
passage of time is required before payment of the 
consideration is due). Refer to accounting policies 
of financial assets in section (Financial instruments 
– initial recognition and subsequent measurement).
	
	
(d)	
Income 
from 
Service 
Concession 
Arrangement
	
	
	
Revenue related to Street Lights Upgrade 
services provided under service concession 
arrangement is recognized as per the 
agreement with the grantor. The Company 
recognizes a financial asset arising from the 
service concession agreement when it has 
an unconditional contractual right to receive 
cash or another financial asset from or at the 
direction of the grantor of the concession 
for the upgrade services provided. Such 
financial assets are measured at fair value 
upon initial recognition.
	
2.08	Other Income
	
(a)	
Interest Income 
	
	
For all debt instruments measured either at 
amortised cost or at fair value through other 
comprehensive 
income, 
interest 
income 
is 
recorded using the effective interest rate (EIR). EIR 
is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated 
future cash payments or receipts over the expected 
life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, 
where appropriate, to the gross carrying amount 
of the financial asset or to the amortised cost of 
a financial liability. When calculating the effective 
interest rate, the Company estimates the expected 
cash flows by considering all the contractual 
terms of the financial instrument (for example, 
prepayment, extension, call and similar options) 
but does not consider the expected credit losses. 
Interest income is included in other income in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
2.09	Leases
	
	
Company as a lessee
	
	
The Company’s lease asset classes primarily 
comprise of lease for land and building. The 
Company applies a single recognition and 
measurement approach for all leases, except 
for short-term leases and leases of low-value 
assets. The Company recognises lease liabilities 
to make lease payments and right-of-use assets 
representing the right to use the underlying assets.
	
	
i)	
Right-of-use assets (ROU)
	
	
	
The Company classifies ROU assets as part 
of Property plant and equipment in Balance 
Sheet and lease liability in “Financial Liability”.
	
	
ii)	
Lease Liabilities
	
	
	
In calculating the present value of lease 
payments, the Company uses its incremental 
borrowing rate at the lease commencement 
date because the interest rate implicit in the 
lease is not readily determinable. 
	
	
(iii)	
Short-term leases and leases of low-value 
assets
	
	
	
The 
Company 
applies 
the 
short-term 
lease recognition exemption to its short-
term leases (i.e., those leases that have a 
lease term of 12 months or less from the 
commencement date and do not contain a 
purchase option). It also applies the lease of 
low-value assets recognition exemption to 
leases that are considered to be low value. 
Lease payments on short-term leases and 
leases of low-value assets are recognised 
as expense on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
	
2.10	Provisions and Contingent Liabilities 
	
	
Warranty Provisions
	
	
Provision for warranty-related costs are recognized 
when the product is sold or service is provided to 
customer. Initial recognition is based on historical 
experience. the Company periodically reviews the 
adequacy of product warranties and adjust warranty 
percentage and warranty provisions for actual 
experience, if necessary. The timing of outflow is 
expected to be with in one to seven years.
	
2.11	Material accounting judgments, estimates 
and assumptions
	
	
The preparation of these standalone financial 
statements requires the management to make 
judgments, use estimates and assumptions that 
Havells India Limited
212
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, 
assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent 
liabilities. Uncertainty about these judgements, 
assumptions and estimates could result in 
outcomes that require a material adjustment to the 
carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in 
future periods.
	
	
a)	
Leases
	
	
	
The Company determines the lease term 
as the non-cancellable term of the lease, 
together with any periods covered by an 
option to extend the lease if it is reasonably 
certain to be exercised, or any periods 
covered by an option to terminate the lease, 
if it is reasonably certain not to be exercised.
	
	
	
The Company has several lease contracts 
that include extension and termination 
options. The Company applies judgement 
in evaluating whether it is reasonably certain 
whether or not to exercise the option to renew 
or terminate the lease. That is, it considers 
all relevant factors that create an economic 
incentive for it to exercise either the renewal 
or termination. After the commencement 
date, the Company reassesses the lease 
term if there is a material event or change 
in circumstances that is within its control 
and affects its ability to exercise or not to 
exercise the option to renew or to terminate 
(e.g., construction of material leasehold 
improvements or material customisation to 
the leased asset).
	
	
b)	
Taxes
	
	
	
Uncertainties exist with respect to the 
interpretation of tax regulations, changes 
in tax laws, and the amount and timing 
of future taxable income. Given the wide 
range of business relationships differences 
arising between the actual results and the 
assumptions made, or future changes to 
such assumptions, could necessitate future 
adjustments to tax income and expense 
already recorded. The Company establishes 
provisions, based on reasonable estimates. 
The amount of such provisions is based 
on various factors, such as experience of 
previous tax assessments and differing 
interpretations of tax regulations by the 
taxable entity and the responsible tax 
authority. (Refer Note 17)
	
	
c)	
Gratuity benefit and Leave obligation
	
	
	
The cost of defined benefit plans (i.e. 
Gratuity benefit) and other long term 
employee obligations (i.e Leave obligation) 
is determined using actuarial valuations. An 
actuarial valuation involves making various 
assumptions which may differ from actual 
developments in the future. These include 
the determination of the discount rate, future 
salary increases, mortality rates and future 
pension increases. Due to the complexity 
of the valuation, the underlying assumptions 
and its long-term nature, a defined benefit 
obligation and leave obligation is highly 
sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All 
assumptions are reviewed at each reporting 
date. In determining the appropriate discount 
rate, management considers the interest 
rates of long term government bonds with 
extrapolated maturity corresponding to the 
expected duration of the defined benefit 
obligation. The mortality rate is based 
on publicly available mortality tables for 
India. Future salary increases and pension 
increases are based on expected future 
inflation rates for India. Further details about 
the assumptions used, including a sensitivity 
analysis, are given in Note 33(4).
	
	
d)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
	
The Company assesses at each reporting 
date whether there is an indication that an 
asset including intangible assets having 
indefinite useful life and goodwill may be 
impaired. If any indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is 
required, the Company estimates the asset’s 
recoverable amount. An assets recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s CGU’S fair 
value less cost of disposal and its value in 
use. Where the carrying amount of an asset 
or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the 
asset is considered impaired and is written 
down to its recoverable amount.
	
	
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are estimated based on 
past rend and discounted to their present 
value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to 
the asset. In determining fair value less costs 
of disposal, recent market transactions are 
taken into account. If no such transactions 
can be identified, an appropriate valuation 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
213
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
model is used. These calculations are 
corroborated by valuation multiples, or other 
fair value indicators. 
	
	
e)	
Provision for warranty
	
	
	
Warranty provisions is determined based on 
the historical percentage of warranty expense 
to sales for the same types of goods for which 
the warranty is currently being determined. 
The same percentage to the sales is applied 
for the current accounting period to derive the 
warranty expense to be accrued. It is adjusted 
to account for unusual factors related to 
the goods that were sold, such as defective 
inventory lying at the depots. The warranty 
claims may not exactly match the historical 
warranty percentage, so such estimates are 
reviewed annually for any material changes 
in assumptions and likelihood of occurrence. 
The assumptions are consistent with prior 
years. (Refer Note 20)
	
	
f)	
Provision for expected credit losses (ECL) of 
trade receivables and contract assets 
	
	
	
The Company uses a provision matrix to 
calculate ECLs for trade receivables and 
contract assets. The provision rates are 
based on days past due for groupings 
of various customer segments that have 
similar loss patterns (i.e., by geography, 
product type, customer type and rating, and 
coverage by letters of credit and other forms 
of credit insurance). The provision matrix is 
initially based on the Company’s historical 
observed default rates. The Company will 
calibrate the matrix to adjust the historical 
credit loss experience with forward-looking 
information. 
At 
every 
reporting 
date, 
the historical observed default rates are 
updated and changes in the forward-looking 
estimates are analysed. 
	
	
	
The assessment of the correlation between 
historical observed default rates, forecast 
economic conditions and ECLs is a material 
estimate. The amount of ECLs is sensitive to 
changes in circumstances and of forecast 
economic 
conditions. 
The 
Company’s 
historical credit loss experience and forecast 
of economic conditions may also not be 
representative of customer’s actual default in 
the future. The information about the ECLs 
on the Company’s trade receivables and 
contract assets is disclosed in Note 33(10)
	
	
g)	
Property, 
Plant 
and 
Equipment 
and 
intangible assets
	
	
	
Property, Plant and Equipment represent 
material portion of the asset base of the 
Company. The charge in respect of periodic 
depreciation is derived after determining an 
estimate of assets expected useful life and 
expected value at the end of its useful life. The 
useful life and residual value of Company’s 
assets are determined by Management 
at the time asset is acquired and reviewed 
periodically including at the end of each 
year. The useful life is based on historical 
experience with similar assets, in anticipation 
of future events, which may have impact on 
their life such as change in technology.
	
	
	
Other accounting policy
	
	
	
This note provides a list of other accounting 
policies adopted in the preparation of these 
standalone financial statements to the extent 
they have not already been disclosed in 
the other notes above. These policies have 
been consistently applied to all the years 
presented, unless otherwise stated.
	
2.12	Description
	
a)	
Rounding Off
	
	
These 
standalone 
financial 
statements 
are 
presented in ` and all values are rounded to the 
nearest crore (` 0,000,000), except when otherwise 
indicated.
	
b)	
Current versus non-current classification
	
	
The Company presents assets and liabilities in 
the balance sheet based on current/non- current 
classification. An asset is treated as current 
when it is:
	
	
-	
Expected to be realized or intended to be 
sold or consumed in normal operating cycle
	
	
-	
Held primarily for purpose of trading
	
	
-	
Expected to be realized within twelve months 
after the reporting period, or
	
	
-	
cash or cash equivalent unless restricted 
from being exchanged or used to settle a 
liability for at least twelve months after the 
reporting period
	
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
Havells India Limited
214
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
A liability is current when:
	
	
-	
It is expected to be settled in normal 
operating cycle
	
	
-	
It is held primarily for purpose of trading
	
	
-	
It is due to be settled within twelve months 
after the reporting period, or
	
	
-	
There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period
	
	
All other liabilities are classified as non current.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are 
classified as non- current assets and liabilities.
	
	
The operating cycle is the time between the 
acquisition of assets for processing and their 
realization in cash and cash equivalents. The 
Company has identified twelve months as its 
operating cycle.
	
c)	
Property Plant and Equipment
	
	
The historical cost comprises of purchase price, 
taxes, duties, freight and other incidental expenses 
directly attributable and related to acquisition and 
installation of the concerned assets and are further 
adjusted by the amount of input tax credit availed 
wherever applicable.Such cost includes the cost 
of replacing part of the plant and equipment and 
borrowing costs for long-term construction projects 
if the recognition criteria are met. When material 
parts of plant and equipment are required to be 
replaced at intervals, the Company depreciates 
them separately based on their specific useful lives. 
Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, 
its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of 
the plant and equipment as a replacement if the 
recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair 
and maintenance costs are recognised in profit or 
loss as incurred. The present value of the expected 
cost for the decommissioning of an asset after its 
use is included in the cost of the respective asset if 
the recognition criteria for a provision are met. 
	
	
Subsequent costs are included in asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as separate assets, as 
appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefit associated with the item will 
flow to the Company and the cost of item can be 
measured reliably. 
	
	
An item of property, plant and equipment and any 
material part initially recognised is derecognized 
upon disposal or when no future economic 
benefits are expected from its use or disposal. 
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the 
asset (calculated as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset) is included in the income statement when 
the asset is derecognised.
	
	
Capital work- in- progress includes cost of 
property, plant and equipment under installation / 
under development as at the balance sheet date. 
Capital work in progress is stated at cost, net of 
accumulated impairment loss, if any.
	
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted 
prospectively, if appropriate.
	
d)	
Intangible assets
	
	
Separately acquired intangible assets
	
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured 
on initial recognition at cost. Cost of intangible assets 
acquired in business combination is their fair value at 
the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, 
intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortization and accumulated impairment losses, 
if any. Cost comprises the purchase price and any 
attributable cost of bringing the asset to its working 
condition for its intended use.
	
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed 
as either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with 
finite lives are amortized over their useful lives 
and assessed for impairment whenever there 
is an indication that the intangible asset may 
be impaired. The amortization period and the 
amortization method for an intangible asset with 
a finite useful life is reviewed at least at the end 
of each reporting period. Changes in the expected 
useful life or the expected pattern of consumption 
of future economic benefits embodied in the asset 
is accounted for by changing the amortization 
period or method, as appropriate, and are 
treated as changes in accounting estimates. The 
amortization expense on intangible assets with 
finite lives is recognized in the statement of profit 
and loss.
	
	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not 
amortized, but are tested for impairment annually, 
either individually or at the cash-generating unit 
level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed 
annually to determine whether the indefinite life 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
215
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
continues to be supportable. If not, the change 
in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a 
prospective basis. The Company has assessed 
indefinite life for such brand considering the 
expected usage, expected investment on brand, 
business forecast and challenges to establish a 
premium electronic segment. These are carried at 
historical cost and tested for impairment annually.
	
	
Research and development cost
	
	
Research costs are expensed as incurred. 
Development expenditure incurred on an individual 
project is recognized as an intangible asset when 
the Company can demonstrate all the following:
	
	
i)	
The technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for 
use or sale;
	
	
ii)	
Its intention to complete the asset;
	
	
iii)	
Its ability to use or sale the asset;
	
	
iv)	
How the asset will generate future economic 
benefits;
	
	
v)	
The availability of adequate resources to 
complete the development and to use or 
sale the asset; and
	
	
vi)	
The ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during 
development.
	
	
Following the initial recognition of the development 
expenditure as an asset, the cost model is applied 
requiring the asset to be carried at cost less any 
accumulated 
amortization 
and 
accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortization of the asset 
begins when development is complete and the 
asset is available for use. It is amortized on straight 
line basis over the estimated useful life and is 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
During the period of development, the asset is 
tested for impairment annually.
	
e)	
Impairment of non- financial assets
	
	
For assets excluding goodwill and intangible assets 
having indefinite life, an assessment is made at 
each reporting date to determine whether there is 
an indication that previously recognised impairment 
losses no longer exist or have decreased. If such 
indication exists, the Company estimates the 
asset’s or CGU’s recoverable amount. A previously 
recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there 
has been a change in the assumptions used to 
determine the asset’s recoverable amount since 
the last impairment loss was recognised. The 
reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of 
the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, 
nor exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation, had no 
impairment loss been recognised for the asset 
in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss unless the asset is 
carried at a revalued amount, in which case, the 
reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
	
f)	
Financial instruments 
	
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity.
	
	
Initial recognition measurement
	
	
In order for a financial asset to be classified and 
measured at amortised cost or fair value through 
OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are 
‘solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI)’ 
on the principal amount outstanding. This 
assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is 
performed at an instrument level. Financial assets 
with cash flows that are not SPPI are classified 
and measured at fair value through profit or loss, 
irrespective of the business model.
	
	
The Company’s business model for managing 
financial assets refers to how it manages its 
financial assets in order to generate cash flows. 
The business model determines whether cash 
flows will result from collecting contractual cash 
flows, selling the financial assets, or both.
	
	
Financial assets classified and measured at 
amortised cost are held within a business model 
with the objective to hold financial assets in order 
to collect contractual cash flows while financial 
assets classified and measured at fair value 
through OCI are held within a business model with 
the objective of both holding to collect contractual 
cash flows and selling.
	
	
Financial assets at amortised cost (debt 
instruments)
	
	
After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortized cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are 
an integral part of EIR. EIR is the rate that exactly 
discounts the estimated future cash receipts over 
the expected life of the financial instrument or a 
Havells India Limited
216
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
shorter period, where appropriate, to the gross 
carrying amount of the financial asset. When 
calculating the effective interest rate, the Company 
estimates the expected cash flows by considering 
all the contractual terms of the financial instrument 
but does not consider the expected credit losses. 
The EIR amortization is included in other income in 
profit or loss. The losses arising from impairment 
are recognized in the profit or loss. This category 
generally applies to trade and other receivables.
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through OCI 
(FVTOCI) (debt instruments)
	
	
Debt instrument included within the FVTOCI 
category are measured initially as well as at each 
reporting date at fair value. Fair value movements 
are recognized in the other comprehensive income 
(OCI), except for the recognition of interest income, 
impairment gains or losses and foreign exchange 
gains or losses which are recognized in statement 
of profit and loss and computed in the same manner 
as for financial assets measured at amortised cost. 
The remaining fair value changes are recognised in 
OCI. Upon derecognition, the cumulative fair value 
changes recognised in OCI is reclassified from the 
equity to profit or loss.
	
	
Financial assets designated at fair value through 
OCI (equity instruments)
	
	
Upon initial recognition, the Company can elect 
to classify irrevocably its equity investments as 
equity instruments designated at fair value through 
OCI when they meet the definition of equity under 
Ind AS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 
and are not held for trading. The classification is 
determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis. 
Equity instruments which are held for trading 
and contingent consideration recognised by an 
acquirer in a business combination to which Ind 
AS103 applies are classified as at FVTPL.
	
	
Gains and losses on these financial assets are 
never recycled to profit or loss. Dividends are 
recognised as other income in the statement of 
profit and loss when the right of payment has been 
established, except when the Company benefits 
from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the 
cost of the financial asset, in which case, such 
gains are recorded in OCI. Equity instruments 
designated at fair value through OCI are not subject 
to impairment assessment. 
	
	
Derecognition
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of 
a financial asset or part of a Company of similar 
financial assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. 
removed from the Company’s statement of 
financial position) when:
	
	
-	
The rights to receive cash flows from the 
asset have expired, or
	
	
-	
the Company has transferred its rights to 
receive cash flows from the asset or has 
assumed an obligation to pay the received 
cash flows in full without material delay 
to a third party under a “pass through” 
arrangement and either;
	
	
(a)	
the Company has transferred substantially all 
the risks and rewards of the asset, or
	
	
(b)	
the Company has neither transferred nor 
retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, but has transferred 
control of the asset.
	
	
When the Company has transferred its rights to 
receive cash flows from an asset or has entered 
into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates 
if and to what extent it has retained the risks 
and rewards of ownership. When it has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all of the 
risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred 
control of the asset, the Company continues to 
recognise the transferred asset to the extent of the 
Company’s continuing involvement. In that case, 
the Group also recognises an associated liability. 
The transferred asset and the associated liability 
are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and 
obligations that the Group has retained.
	
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a 
guarantee over the transferred asset is measured 
at the lower of the original carrying amount of the 
asset and the maximum amount of consideration 
that the group could be required to repay.
	
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
In accordance with IND AS 109, the Company 
applies expected credit losses(ECL) model for 
measurement and recognition of impairment loss 
on the following financial asset and credit risk 
exposure
	
	
-	
Financial assets measured at amortized 
cost;
	
	
-	
Financial assets measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income(FVTOCI);
	
	
ECLs are based on the difference between the 
contractual cash flows due in accordance with 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
217
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
the contract and all the cash flows that the Group 
expects to receive, discounted at an approximation 
of the original effective interest rate. The expected 
cash flows will include cash flows from the sale of 
collateral held or other credit enhancements that 
are integral to the contractual terms.
	
	
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) 
recognized during the period is recognized as 
income/ expense in the statement of profit and 
loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other 
expenses’ in the statement of profit and loss. The 
balance sheet presentation for various financial 
instruments is described below:
	
	
(a)	
Financial assets measured as at amortised 
cost: ECL is presented as an allowance, 
i.e., as an integral part of the measurement 
of those assets in the balance sheet. The 
allowance reduces the net carrying amount. 
Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the 
group does not reduce impairment allowance 
from the gross carrying amount.
	
	
(b)	
Loan commitments and financial guarantee 
contracts: ECL is presented as a provision in 
the balance sheet, i.e. as a liability.
	
	
(c)	
Debt instruments measured at FVTOCI: For 
debt instruments measured at FVTOCI, the 
expected credit losses do not reduce the 
carrying amount in the balance sheet, which 
remains at fair value. Instead, an amount 
equal to the allowance that would arise if the 
asset was measured at amortised cost is 
recognised in other comprehensive income 
as the accumulated impairment amount.
	
g)	
Financial liabilities:
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
Financial liabilities are classified at initial recognition 
as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss, loans and borrowings, and payables, net of 
directly attributable transaction costs. All financial 
liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in 
the case of loans and borrowings and payables, 
net of directly attributable transaction costs. The 
Company financial liabilities include loans and 
borrowings, trade payables, trade deposits, 
retention money, liabilities towards services, sales 
incentive and other payables.
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, 
financial liabilities are classified in two categories: 
	
	
(i)	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit 
or loss 
	
	
(ii)	
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (loans 
and borrowings)
	
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss
	
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss include financial liabilities held for trading and 
financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition 
as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial 
liabilities are classified as held for trading if they 
are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the 
near term. This category also includes derivative 
financial instruments entered into by the Company 
that are not designated as hedging instruments in 
hedge relationship as defined by Ind AS 109. The 
separated embedded derivate are also classified 
as held for trading unless they are designated as 
effective hedging instruments.
	
	
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Financial 
liabilities 
designated 
upon 
initial 
recognition at fair value through profit or loss 
are designated as such at the initial date of 
recognition, and only if the criteria in IND AS 109 
are satisfied. For liabilities designated as FVTPL, 
fair value gains/ losses attributable to changes in 
own credit risk are recognized in OCI. These gains/ 
loss are not subsequently transferred to profit 
and loss. However, the Company may transfer 
the cumulative gain or loss within equity. All other 
changes in fair value of such liability are recognized 
in the statement of profit or loss. the Company has 
not designated any financial liability as at fair value 
through profit and loss.
	
	
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (Loans and 
borrowings)
	
	
After initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings 
are subsequently measured at amortized cost using 
the Effective interest rate method. Gains and losses 
are recognized in profit or loss when the liabilities 
are derecognised as well as through the Effective 
interest rate amortization process. Amortized cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount 
or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the Effective interest rate. 
The Effective interest rate amortization is included 
as finance costs in the statement of profit and loss. 
	
	
Trade Payables
	
	
These amounts represents liabilities for goods and 
services provided to the Company prior to the end 
Havells India Limited
218
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
of financial year which are unpaid. The amounts 
are unsecured and are usually paid per the term of 
contract with suppliers. Trade and other payables 
are presented as current liabilities unless payment 
is not due within 12 months after the reporting 
period. They are recognized initially at fair value 
and subsequently measured at amortized cost 
using Effective interest rate method.
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts 
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the 
Company are those contracts that require a 
payment to be made to reimburse the holder for 
a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails 
to make a payment when due in accordance with 
the terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee 
contracts are recognized initially as a liability at fair 
value, adjusted for transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. 
Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher 
of the amount of loss allowance determined as per 
impairment requirements of IND AS 109 and the 
amount recognized less cumulative amortization.
	
	
Derecognition
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, 
such an exchange or modification is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
	
Financials assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount is reported in the balance 
sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right 
to offset the recognized amounts and there is an 
intention to settle on a net basis, to realize the 
assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
	
	
Reclassification of financial assets/ financial 
liabilities
	
	
The Company determines classification of financial 
assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial 
recognition, no reclassification is made for financial 
assets which are equity instruments and financial 
liabilities. For financial assets which are debt 
instruments, a reclassification is made only if there 
is a change in the business model for managing 
those assets. Changes to the business model 
are expected to be infrequent. The Company’s 
senior management determines change in the 
business model as a result of external or internal 
changes which are material to the Company’s 
operations. Such changes are evident to external 
parties. A change in the business model occurs 
when the Company either begins or ceases to 
perform an activity that is material to its operations. 
If the Company reclassifies financial assets, it 
applies the reclassification prospectively from the 
reclassification date which is the first day of the 
immediately next reporting period following the 
change in business model. The Company does 
not restate any previously recognised gains, losses 
(including impairment gains or losses) or interest.
	
h)	
Investment in Subsidiaries
	
	
The investment in subsidiary are carried at cost 
as per IND AS 27. The Company regardless 
of the nature of its involvement with an entity 
(the investee), determines whether it is a parent 
by assessing whether it controls the investee. 
The Company controls an investee when it is 
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee and has the ability 
to affect those returns through its power over the 
investee. Thus, the Company controls an investee 
if and only if it has all the following:
	
	
(a)	
power over the investee;
	
	
(b)	
exposure, or rights, to variable returns from 
its involvement with the investee and
	
	
(c)	
the ability to use its power over the investee 
to affect the amount of the returns.
	
	
Investments are accounted in accordance with IND 
AS 105 when they are classified as held for sale. 
On disposal of investment, the difference between 
its carrying amount and net disposal proceeds is 
charged or credited to the statement of profit and loss
	
i)	
Inventory
	
	
Basis of valuation:
	
	
Inventories other than scrap materials are valued 
at lower of cost and net realizable value after 
providing cost of obsolescence, if any. However, 
materials and other items held for use in the 
production of inventories are not written down 
below cost if the finished products in which they 
will be incorporated are expected to be sold at 
or above cost. The comparison of cost and net 
realizable value is made on an item-by-item basis.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
219
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
Inventory of scrap materials have been valued at 
net realizable value.
	
	
Method of Valuation:
	
	
Cost of raw materials has been determined by 
using moving weighted average cost method and 
comprises all costs of purchase, duties, taxes 
(other than those subsequently recoverable from 
tax authorities) and all other costs incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition.
	
	
Cost of finished goods and work-in-progress 
includes direct labour and an appropriate share 
of fixed and variable production overheads. Fixed 
production overheads are allocated on the basis 
of normal capacity of production facilities. Cost is 
determined on moving weighted average basis.
	
	
Cost of traded goods has been determined by 
using moving weighted average cost method and 
comprises all costs of purchase, duties, taxes 
(other than those subsequently recoverable from 
tax authorities) and all other costs incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition.
	
j)	
Non-current assets held for sale
	
	
The Company classifies non-current assets as held 
for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered 
principally through a sale rather than through 
continuing use and the sale is considered highly 
probable. Such non-current assets classified as 
held for sale are measured at the lower of their 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
Any expected loss is recognized immediately in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
The criteria for held for sale classification is 
regarded as met only when the assets is available 
for immediate sale in its present condition, subject 
only to terms that are usual and customary for 
sales of such assets, its sale is highly probable; 
and it will genuinely be sold. The Company treats 
sale of the asset to be highly probable when:
	
	
i)	
The appropriate level of management is 
committed to a plan to sell the asset
	
	
ii)	
An active programme to locate a buyer 
and complete the plan has been initiated (if 
applicable)
	
	
iii)	
The asset is being actively marketed for sale 
at a price that is reasonable in relation to its 
current fair value
	
	
iv)	
The sale is expected to qualify for recognition 
as a completed sale within one year from the 
date of classification, and
	
	
v)	
Actions required to complete the plan 
indicate that it is unlikely that material 
changes to the plan will be made or that the 
plan will be withdrawn.
	
	
The criteria for held for sale classification is 
regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and the asset is available for immediate 
sale in its present condition and the assets must 
have actively marketed for sale at a price that is 
reasonable in relation to its current fair value. Actions 
required to complete the sale should indicate that it 
is unlikely that material changes to the plan to sale 
these assets will be made. Management must be 
committed to the sale, which should be expected 
to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within 
one year from the date of classification.
	
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets once classified as held for sale are not 
depreciated or amortized. Assets and liabilities 
classified as held for sale are presented separately 
as current items in the balance sheet.
	
k)	
Income Tax
	
	
The income tax expense or credit for the period 
is the tax payable on the current period’s taxable 
income based on the applicable income tax rate 
adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and 
liabilities attributable to temporary differences and 
to unused tax losses. Income Tax expense for the 
year comprises of current tax and deferred tax.
	
	
Current income tax
	
	
Current income tax, assets and liabilities are 
measured at the amount expected to be paid 
to or recovered from the taxation authorities in 
accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the 
Income Computation and Disclosure Standards 
(ICDS) enacted in India by using tax rates and the 
tax laws that are enacted at the reporting date. 
	
	
The current income tax charge is calculated on 
the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively 
enacted at the end of the reporting period in 
the countries where the company operate and 
generate taxable income. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect 
to situations in which applicable tax regulation is 
subject to interpretation and considers whether it 
Havells India Limited
220
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
is probable that a taxation authority will accept an 
uncertain tax treatment. The group measures its tax 
balances either based on the most likely amount or 
the expected value, depending on which method 
provides a better prediction of the resolution of the 
uncertainty.
	
	
Current income tax relating to item recognized 
outside the statement of profit and loss is 
recognized outside profit or loss (either in other 
comprehensive income or equity).Current tax items 
are recognized in correlation to the underlying 
transactions either in OCI or directly in equity.
	
	
Deferred Tax
	
	
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance 
sheet method on temporary differences arising 
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the financial statements. 
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised 
if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill. 
	
	
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences, except:
	
	
i)	
When the deferred tax liability arises from 
the initial recognition of goodwill or an 
asset or liability in a transaction that is not a 
business combination and, at the time of the 
transaction, affects neither the accounting 
profit nor taxable profit or loss
	
	
ii)	
In respect of taxable temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint ventures, 
when the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary differences can be controlled and 
it is probable that the temporary differences 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future
	
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, the carry forward of unused 
tax credits and any unused tax losses. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, and 
the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused 
tax losses can be utilised, except:
	
	
When the deferred tax asset relating to the 
deductible temporary difference arises from 
the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
	
	
In respect of deductible temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred 
tax assets are recognised only to the extent that 
it is probable that the temporary differences will 
reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit 
will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
	
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at each reporting date and reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow 
all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilized. 
Unrecognized deferred tax assets are re-assessed 
at each reporting date and are recognized to the 
extent that it has become probable that future 
taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to 
be recovered.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when 
the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on 
tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
	
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognized outside the 
statement of profit and loss is recognized outside 
the statement of profit and loss (either in other 
comprehensive income or in equity). Deferred tax 
items are recognized in correlation to the underlying 
transaction either in OCI or direct in equity.
	
	
Tax benefits acquired as part of a business 
combination, but not satisfying the criteria for 
separate recognition at that date, are recognised 
subsequently if new information about facts and 
circumstances change. Acquired deferred tax 
benefits recognised within the measurement 
period reduce goodwill related to that acquisition 
if they result from new information obtained about 
facts and circumstances existing at the acquisition 
date. If the carrying amount of goodwill is zero, any 
remaining deferred tax benefits are recognised in 
OCI/ capital reserve depending on the principle 
explained for bargain purchase gains. All other 
acquired tax benefits realized are recognised in 
profit or loss.
	
l)	
Other Operating Revenues
	
(a)	
Export benefit
	
	
Revenue from export benefits arising from duty 
drawback scheme, Remission of duties and taxes 
on exported product scheme are recognised on 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
221
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
export of goods in accordance with their respective 
underlying scheme at fair value of consideration 
received or receivable.
	
(b)	
Government Grants 
	
	
Government Grants are recognized at their fair 
value when there is reasonable assurance that 
the grant will be received and all the attached 
conditions will be complied with.
	
	
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is 
recognized as income on a systematic basis 
over the periods that the related costs, for which 
it is intended to compensate, are expensed. 
Government grant related to the non-monetary 
asset are recognised at nominal value and 
presented by deducting the same from carrying 
amount of related asset and the grant is then 
recognised in profit or loss over the useful life of the 
depreciable asset by way of a reduced depreciation 
charge.
	
m)	
Retirement and other employee benefits
	
(i)	
Short-term obligations
	
	
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non 
monetary benefits that are expected to be settled 
wholly within twelve months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the related 
service are recognized in respect of employee 
service upto the end of the reporting period and 
are measured at the amount expected to be paid 
when the liabilities are settled. The liabilities are 
presented as current employee benefit obligations 
in the balance sheet.
	
(ii)	
Post employment
	
	
a)	
Gratuity
	
	
	
The Employee’s Gratuity Fund Scheme, 
which is defined benefit plan, is managed 
by Trust with its investments maintained 
with Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co.Ltd. 
The liabilities with respect to Gratuity Plan 
are determined by actuarial valuation on 
projected unit credit method on the balance 
sheet date, based upon which the Company 
contributes to the Gratuity Scheme. The 
difference, if any, between the actuarial 
valuation of the gratuity of employees at 
the year end and the balance of funds is 
provided for as assets/ (liability) in the books. 
Net interest is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net defined benefit 
liability or asset. The Company recognizes 
the following changes in the net defined 
benefit obligation under Employee benefit 
expense in statement of profit or loss:
	
	
	
a)	
Service 
costs 
comprising 
current 
service costs, past-service costs, 
gains and losses on curtailments and 
non-routine settlements
	
	
	
b)	
Net interest expense or income
	
	
	
	
Remeasurements, 
comprising 
of 
actuarial gains and losses, the effect 
of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts 
included in net interest on the net 
defined benefit liability and the return 
on plan assets (excluding amounts 
included in net interest on the net 
defined benefit liability), are recognized 
immediately in the Balance Sheet 
with a corresponding debit or credit 
to retained earnings through other 
comprehensive income in the period 
in which they occur. Remeasurements 
are not reclassified to profit or loss in 
subsequent periods.
	
	
b)	
Provident fund
	
	
	
Retirement benefit in the form of provident 
fund is a defined contribution scheme. the 
Company has no obligation, other than the 
contribution payable to the provident fund. 
The 
Company 
recognizes 
contribution 
payable through provident fund scheme as 
an expense, when an employee renders 
the related services. If the contribution 
payable to scheme for service received 
before the balance sheet date exceeds the 
contribution already paid, the deficit payable 
to the scheme is recognized as liability after 
deducting the contribution already paid. If 
the contribution already paid exceeds the 
contribution due for services received before 
the balance sheet date, then excesses 
recognized as an asset to the extent that 
the prepayment will lead to, for example, a 
reduction in future payment or a cash refund. 
	
(iii)	
Other employee benefits
	
	
Employees (including senior executives) of the 
Company receive remuneration in the form of share 
based payment transactions, whereby employees 
render services as consideration for equity 
instruments. In accordance with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Havells India Limited
222
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Benefits) Regulations, 2014 and the Ind-AS 102 
Share based payments, the fair value of options 
granted under the Havells Long Term cumulative 
expense recognized for equity-settled transactions 
at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects 
the extent to which the vesting period has expired 
and the Company’s best estimate of the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The 
expense or credit recognized in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss for a period represents the 
movement in cumulative expense recognized as 
at the beginning and end of that period and is 
recognized in employee benefits expense.
	
	
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction 
award are modified, the minimum expense 
recognized is the expense as if the terms had not 
been modified, if the original terms of the award are 
met. An additional expense is recognized for any 
modification that increases the total intrinsic value 
of the share-based payment transaction, or is 
otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured 
at the date of modification. The Employee stock 
option scheme is administered through Havells 
Employee Welfare Trust.
	
	
The Company provides long term incentive plan 
to employees via equity settled share based 
payments as enumerated below:
	
	
(a)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan:   
The fair value of options granted under this 
option plan is recognised as an employee 
benefit expense with corresponding increase 
in equity in accordance with recognition and 
measurement principles as prescribed in Ind 
AS 102 Share Based Payments when grant is 
made. The total expense is recognised over 
the vesting period, which is the period over 
which all of the specified vesting conditions 
are to be satisfied. At end of the reporting 
period, the entity revises its estimates of 
the number of options that are expected to 
vest based on the non-market vesting and 
service conditions. It recognizes the impact 
of the revision to original estimates, if any, in 
profit or loss, with corresponding adjustment 
to equity.
	
	
(b)	
Havells Employees Long term Incentive 
plan : These are in nature of employee 
benefit wherein employees (including senior 
executives) of the Company purchase shares 
of the Company at fair value on the grant cum 
allotment date and receives remuneration in 
the form of ex-gratia equivalent to predefined 
percentage of purchase price paid by 
designated employee subject to serving 
of relevant period of service after the grant 
cum allotment date. These are recognised at 
fair value of shares granted and allotted as 
employee benefit expense over the period of 
employee serving relevant period.
	
	
c)	
Leave Obligation
	
	
	
Leave obligations: The Company has liabilities 
for earned leave that are not expected to 
be settled wholly within 12 months after the 
end of the period in which the employees 
render the related service. These obligations 
are therefore measured as the present value 
of expected future payments to be made in 
respect of services provided by employees 
up to the end of the reporting period using 
the projected unit credit method. The benefits 
are discounted using the appropriate market 
yields at the end of the reporting period that 
have terms approximating to the terms of 
the related obligation. Remeasurements as a 
result of experience adjustments and changes 
in actuarial assumptions are recognised in 
profit or loss.
	
	
	
The Company does not have an unconditional 
right to defer settlement for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period, however, 
based on past experience, the Company 
does not expect all employees to avail the full 
amount of accrued leave or require payment 
of such leave within the next 12 months.
	
n)	
Leases
	
	
The Company assesses at contract inception 
whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That 
is, if the contract conveys the right to control the 
use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration.
	
	
Right-of-use assets (ROU)
	
	
The Company recognises right-of-use assets at 
the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the 
date the underlying asset is available for use). 
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, 
and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease 
liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes 
the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial 
direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at 
or before the commencement date less any lease 
incentives received.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
223
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the 
Company at the end of the lease term or the 
cost reflects the exercise of a purchase option, 
depreciation is calculated using the estimated 
useful life of the asset. The right-of-use assets are 
also subject to impairment. Refer to the accounting 
policies in section ‘Impairment of non-financial 
assets’.
	
	
Lease Liabilities
	
	
At the commencement date of the lease, the 
Company recognises lease liabilities measured at 
the present value of lease payments to be made 
over the lease term. The lease payments include 
fixed payments (including in substance fixed 
payments) less any lease incentives receivable, 
variable lease payments that depend on an index 
or a rate, and amounts expected to be paid under 
residual value guarantees. The lease payments 
also include the exercise price of a purchase 
option reasonably certain to be exercised by 
the Company and payments of penalties for 
terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects 
the Company exercising the option to terminate. 
Variable lease payments that do not depend on an 
index or a rate are recognised as expenses (unless 
they are incurred to produce inventories) in the 
period in which the event or condition that triggers 
the payment occurs.
	
	
After the commencement date, the amount of lease 
liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of 
interest and reduced for the lease payments made. 
In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities 
is remeasured if there is a modification, a change 
in the lease term, a change in the lease payments 
(e.g., changes to future payments resulting from a 
change in an index or rate used to determine such 
lease payments) or a change in the assessment of 
an option to purchase the underlying asset.
	
	
Lease payments are allocated between principal 
and finance cost. The finance cost is charged 
to profit or loss over the lease period so as to 
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability for each period. 
Variable lease payments that depend on sales are 
recognised in profit or loss in the period in which 
the condition that triggers those payments occurs.
	
	
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price 
in the ordinary course of business, less estimated 
costs of completion and estimated costs necessary 
to make the sale.
	
o)	
Segment reporting
	
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided 
to the decision making authority. The Board of 
directors monitors the operating results of all 
product segments separately for the purpose of 
making decisions about resource allocation and 
performance assessment. 
	
p)	
Earnings Per Share
	
	
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing 
the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the 
period. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period is adjusted 
for events such as bonus issue, bonus element in 
a rights issue, share split, and reverse share split 
(consolidation of shares) if any that have changed 
the number of equity shares outstanding, without a 
corresponding change in resources.
	
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per 
share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders and the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the period 
are adjusted for the effect of all potentially dilutive 
equity shares. 
	
q)	
Borrowing Costs
	
	
Borrowing cost includes interest and other costs 
incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds 
and charged to Statement of Profit & Loss on 
the basis of effective interest rate (EIR) method. 
Borrowing cost also includes exchange differences 
to the extent regarded as an adjustment to the 
borrowing cost.
	
	
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of an 
asset that necessarily takes a substantial period 
of time to get ready for its intended use or sale 
are capitalized as part of the cost of the respective 
asset. All other borrowing costs are recognized as 
expense in the period in which they occur.
	
r)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet 
comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-
term deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less, that are readily convertible to a 
known amount of cash and subject to an inmaterial 
risk of changes in value.
Havells India Limited
224
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
For the purpose of presentation in the statement 
of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents 
includes cash on hand, deposit held at call with 
financial institutions, other short - term, highly 
liquid investments with original maturities of three 
months or less that are readily convertible to 
known amounts of cash and which are subject to 
an inmaterial risk of changes in value, and bank 
overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
borrowings in current liabilities in the balance 
sheet.
	
s)	
Foreign currency translation
	
	
(i)	
Functional and presentation currency
	
	
	
Items included in the financial statements 
are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the 
entity operates (‘the functional currency’). 
The Company’s financial statements are 
presented in Indian rupee (`) which is also 
the Company’s functional and presentation 
currency.
	
	
(ii)	
Transactions and balances
	
	
	
Foreign currency transactions are translated 
into the functional currency using the 
exchange rate prevailing at the date of the 
transaction. Foreign exchange gains and 
losses resulting from the settlement of 
such transaction and from the translation of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies at year end exchange 
rate are generally recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss.
	
	
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in 
terms of historical cost in a foreign currency 
are translated using the exchange rates at 
the dates of the initial transactions. Non-
monetary items measured at fair value in a 
foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rates at the date when the fair 
value is determined.
	
	
(iii)	
Exchange differences
	
	
	
Exchange differences arising on settlement 
or translation of monetary items are 
recognized as income or expense in the 
period in which they arise with the exception 
of exchange differences on gain or loss 
arising on translation of non-monetary items 
measured at fair value which is treated in 
line with the recognition of the gain or loss 
on the change in fair value of the item (i.e., 
translation differences on items whose fair 
value gain or loss is recognized in OCI or 
profit or loss are also recognized in OCI or 
profit or loss, respectively).
	
t)	
Provisions and Contingent Liabilities 
	
	
Provisions (including reimbursement)
	
	
A provision is recognized when the Company has 
a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a 
result of past event, it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. These estimates are reviewed at each 
reporting date and adjusted to reflect the current 
best estimates. If the effect of the time value of 
money is material, provisions are discounted 
using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision 
due to the passage of time is recognized as a 
finance cost.
	
	
Insurance claims are accounted for on the basis 
of claims admitted / expected to be admitted and 
to the extent that the amount recoverable can be 
measured reliably and realisation in respect thereof 
is virtually certain.
	
	
Contingent liabilities
	
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events whose existence will be 
confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of 
one or more uncertain future events beyond the 
control of the Company or a present obligation 
that is not recognized because it is not probable 
that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation. A contingent liability also 
arises in extremely rare cases, where there is 
a liability that cannot be recognized because it 
cannot be measured reliably. the Company does 
not recognize a contingent liability but discloses 
its existence in the financial statements unless the 
probability of outflow of resources is remote.
	
	
Provisions, contingent liabilities, contingent assets 
and commitments are reviewed at each balance 
sheet date.
	
u)	
Fair value measurement
	
	
The Company measures financial instruments at 
fair value at each balance sheet date.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
225
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an ordinary 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement 
is based on the presumption that the transaction 
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place 
either:
	
	
(i)	
In the principal market for asset or liability, or
	
	
(ii)	
In the absence of a principal market, in the 
most advantageous market for the asset or 
liability.
	
	
The principal or the most advantageous market 
must be accessible by the Company.
	
	
The fair value of an asset or liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants 
would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their 
economic best interest.
	
	
A fair value measurement of a non- financial asset 
takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
	
The Company uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs.
	
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the financial statements 
are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level 
input that is material to the fair value measurement 
as a whole:
	
	
Level 1- Quoted(unadjusted) market prices in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities
	
	
Level 2- Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is material to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable
	
	
Level 3- Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is material to the fair value 
measurement is unobservable
	
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognized in 
the financial statements on a recurring basis, the 
Company determines whether transfers have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-
assessing categorization (based on the lowest level 
input that is material to fair value measurement as 
a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
	
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the 
Company has determined classes of assets and 
liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics 
and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the 
fair value hierarchy as explained above.
	
v)	
Exceptional items
	
	
The Company recognises exceptional item when 
items of income and expenses within Statement 
of Profit and Loss from ordinary activities are of 
such size, nature or incidence that their disclosure 
is relevant to explain the performance of the 
enterprise for the period.
	
w)	
Dividend Distributions
	
	
The Company recognizes a liability to make the 
payment of dividend to owners of equity, when the 
distribution is authorised and the distribution is no 
longer at the discretion of the Company. As per the 
corporate laws in India, a distribution is authorised 
when it is approved by the shareholders. A 
corresponding amount is recognised directly 
in equity.
Havells India Limited
226
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
3.	
Property, plant and equipment
(` in crores)
Particulars
Freehold 
Land
Buildings 
Leasehold 
Improvements
Plant and 
Machinery
Moulds 
and 
Dies
Furniture 
and 
fixtures
Vehicles
R & D 
Equipment's
Office 
Equipment's
Electrical 
Installations
Right of use asset 
 Total 
Capital 
Work in 
progress
 Grand 
Total 
Leasehold 
Land
Leasehold 
Buildings
Gross carrying amount 
(at cost)
At April 01, 2023
27.77 
875.50 
 14.05 
1,147.65 456.42 
80.29 
 21.33 
54.64 
 141.07 
55.67 
231.49 
345.07 
3,450.95 
163.42 3,614.37 
Additions
-
158.93 
0.04 
184.66 
92.11 
32.39 
1.95 
20.18 
54.47 
19.98 
0.30 
133.72 
 698.73 
 660.85 1,359.59 
Recognition of grant 
related to assets {Refer 
note 3 (iv)}
-
(0.02)
-
(1.98)
(0.82)
 (0.26)
 -
-
 (0.13)
-
-
 (3.21)
(3.21)
Disposals/Adjustments 
-
-
-
(11.35)
(3.40)
 (1.13)
 (2.38)
 (0.32)
 (10.13)
(0.85)
 (0.18)
(29.74)
 (527.36)
(557.10)
At March 31, 2024
27.77 
1,034.41 
 14.09 
1,318.98 544.31 
111.29 
 20.90 
74.50 
 185.28 
74.80 
231.61 
478.79 
4,116.73 
296.91 4,413.65 
Additions
-
150.58 
6.33 
417.62 131.46 
16.27 
0.35 
26.54 
38.45 
32.00 
145.39 
108.61 
1,073.60 
 612.11 1,685.71 
Recognition of grant 
related to assets 
-
-
-
 -
-
-
 -
-
-
-
-
-
 -
Disposals/adjustments*
(15.89)
(5.87)
(0.01)
(12.43)  (17.57)
 (1.26)
 (0.04)
 (2.88)
 (14.20)
(0.01)
-
 (38.92)
 (109.08)
 (792.55)
(901.63)
At March 31, 2025
11.88 
1,179.12 
 20.41 
1,724.17 658.20 
126.30 
 21.21 
98.16 
 209.53 
106.79 
377.00 
548.48 
5,081.25 
116.47 5,197.73 
Accumulated 
Depreciation
At April 01, 2023
-
205.82 
9.28 
455.16 217.66 
30.70 
7.58 
27.96 
96.86 
27.63 
8.78 
135.75 
1,223.18 
-
1,223.18 
Charge for the year
-
35.30 
1.39 
 97.72 
62.86 
9.03 
2.24 
9.94 
20.43 
4.75 
2.54 
65.73 
 311.93 
-
 311.93 
Disposals/adjustments 
-
-
-
(8.63)
(2.30)
 (0.96)
 (2.15)
 (0.24)
 (9.47)
(0.78)
 (0.03)
 -
(24.56)
-
 (24.56)
At March 31, 2024
-
241.12 
 10.67 
544.25 278.22 
38.77 
7.67 
37.66 
 107.82 
31.60 
 11.29 
201.48 
1,510.55 
-
1,510.55 
Charge for the year
-
40.24 
1.82 
119.81 
73.12 
10.36 
2.21 
11.95 
28.51 
7.57 
3.84 
79.37
 378.80 
-
 378.80 
Disposals/adjustments 
-
(2.57)
(0.01)
(8.43)  (14.10)
 (0.99)
 (0.03)
 (1.84)
 (13.32)
(0.34)
-
(17.72)
(59.35)
-
 (59.35)
At March 31, 2025
-
278.79 
 12.48 
655.63 337.24 
48.14 
9.85 
47.77 
 123.01 
38.83 
 15.13 
263.13 
1,830.00 
-
1,830.00 
At April 01, 2023
27.77 
669.68 
4.77 
692.49 238.76 
49.59 
 13.75 
26.68 
44.21 
28.04 
222.71 
209.32 
2,227.77 
163.42 2,391.19 
At March 31, 2024
27.77 
793.29 
3.42 
774.73 266.09 
72.52 
 13.23 
36.84 
77.46 
43.20 
220.32 
277.31 
2,606.18 
296.91 2,903.10 
At March 31, 2025
11.88 
900.33 
7.93 
1,068.54 320.96 
78.16 
 11.36 
50.39 
86.52 
67.96 
361.87 
285.35 
3,251.25 
116.47 3,367.72 
	
*Disposal Includes Assets held for sale amounting to ` 3.42 Crore (March 31, 2024 ` 2.18 Crore) refer note (13)
Notes: - 
(i)	
Right of Use Asset includes :-
	
(a)	
“Leasehold Land” represents land obtained on long term lease from various Government authorities. 
	
(b)	
Leasehold Buildings represent properties taken on lease for its offices and warehouses accounted for in accordance with principle of Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’. Refer Note 33(3) 
(ii)	
Capital work in progress as at March 31, 2025 consists of assets under construction mainly related to plant & machinery, buildings etc. at various plants of the Company. Adjustment in relation to capital work 
in progress relates to addition in property, plant and equipment made during the year. 
(iii)	 Disclosure of Contractual commitment for the acquisition of property plant and equipment has been provided in note 32B.
(iv)	 The grant related to assets incudes: for the year ended March 31, 2025 NIL (March 31, 2024 ` 3.21 Corers)  is on account of Modified Special Incentive Package (MSIP) scheme for making capital investment 
at Ghiloth District, General Zone Industrial Area RIICO in the state of Rajasthan.
(v)	 The Company has not revalued its Property Plant and Equipment (Including Right of use assets) or Intangible assets during the year 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
227
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(vi)	
Capital work-in-progress (“CWIP”) Ageing schedule
As at March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Capital Work in progress
Amount in CWIP for a period of
 Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 294.94 
 1.97 
 - 
 - 
 296.91 
As at March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Capital Work in progress
Amount in CWIP for a period of
 Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 116.47 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 116.47 
Note: There are no projects under capital work in progress where the completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan 
as at March 31, 2025. Further, there are no projects which have exceeded its cost compared to its original plan as at March 31, 2024.
Completion Schedule for capital work-in-progress whose completion is overdue as at March 31, 2024
To be completed In
Total 
Less than 1 year 
1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Cable plant at Tumakuru, 
Karnataka
 184.82 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 184.82 
(vii)	 Title deeds of Immovable Property not held in the name of the Company
As at March 31, 2025
Relevant line 
item in the 
Balance Sheet
 Description 
of item of 
property 
 Gross 
carrying 
value (` in 
crores) 
Title deeds held 
in the name of
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative 
of promoter/director 
or employee of 
promoter/director
Property 
held 
since 
which 
date
Reason for not being held in the 
name of the company
Property, plant 
and equipment
Building In 
Bengaluru
0.04
Shakereh 
Shraddhanand
No
April 01, 
2012
The possession and original agreement 
to sell, of the property is in the name 
of Company. Further, the Company is 
taking adequate legal steps to get the 
title deeds registered with appropriate 
authority.
As at March 31, 2024
Relevant line 
item in the 
Balance Sheet
Description 
of item of 
property
 Gross 
carrying 
value (` in 
crores) 
Title deeds held 
in the name of
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative 
of promoter/director 
or employee of 
promoter/director
Property 
held 
since 
which 
date
Reason for not being held in the 
name of the company
Property, plant 
and equipment
Freehold land 
in Delhi 
15.89
Late Shri Qimat Rai 
Gupta, on behalf 
of M/s Guptajee & 
Company 
Erstwhile Promoter/ 
Director
March 
31, 2011
The possession and original agreement 
to sell, of the property is in the name 
of Company. Further, title deeds will be 
registered in the name of the Company 
once the state government’s policy on 
registry is changed.
Property, plant 
and equipment
Building In 
Bengaluru
0.04
Shakereh 
Shraddhanand
No
April 01, 
2012
The possession and the original 
agreement to sell, of the property is 
in the name of Company. Further, the 
Company is taking adequate legal 
steps to get the title deeds registered 
with appropriate authority
Havells India Limited
228
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(viii)	 Property where company is a lessee but agreements are not executed
(` in crores)
Relevant 
line item in 
the Balance 
Sheet 
 Description 
of item of 
property 
 Gross 
carrying 
Value (`) 
 Net 
carrying 
value 
 Net 
lease 
liability 
 Title deeds 
held in the 
name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative 
of promoter/director 
or employee of 
promoter/director 
Property 
held since 
which 
date 
Reason for lease agreement 
not executed with the 
company 
Property, 
plant and 
equipment 
Building in 
Sahibabad 
43.20 
36.10 
40.36 
 QRG 
Enterprises 
Limited 
 Promoter {refer note 
33(6)} 
August 01, 
2007
Rent is being paid based on 
the mutual understanding and 
the monthly invoice for usage 
charges is raised by QRG 
Enterprises {refer note 33(6)} 
Property, 
plant and 
equipment 
 Building in 
Noida 
96.79 
62.92 
71.71 
 QRG 
Enterprises 
Limited 
 Promoter {refer note 
33(6)} 
July 01, 
2008
4.	
Goodwill and other Intangible assets
(` in crores)
Particulars
Computer 
Software 
R & D 
Software 
Trademarks  Distributor/ 
Dealer 
Network 
 Non-
compete 
Fee 
 Total
Other 
Intangible 
Assets 
Goodwill 
Intangibles 
assets under 
development 
 Total 
Intangible 
Assets 
Gross carrying amount  
(at cost)
At April 01, 2023
55.55 
15.40 
1,029.00 
82.40 
58.50 
 1,240.85 
310.47 
2.99 
1,554.31 
Additions - Acquired Separately 
12.26 
3.12 
-
-
-
15.38 
 -
5.12 
 20.50 
Disposals/adjustments 
(0.19)
-
-
-
-
(0.19)
 -
(6.32)
(6.51)
At March 31, 2024
67.62 
18.52 
1,029.00 
82.40 
58.50 
 1,256.04 
310.47 
1.79 
1,568.30 
Additions - Acquired Separately 
10.92 
3.07 
13.99 
 -
9.62 
 23.61 
Disposals/adjustments 
(1.30)
-
-
-
-
(1.30)
 -
(9.69)
(10.99)
At March 31, 2025
77.24 
21.59 
1,029.00 
82.40 
58.50 
 1,268.73 
310.47 
1.72 
1,580.92 
Accumulated amortization 
At April 01, 2023
39.75 
8.67 
-
60.80 
49.30 
 158.52 
 -
-
158.52 
Charge for the year 
5.64 
2.26 
-
10.30 
8.35 
26.55 
 -
-
 26.55 
Disposals/adjustments 
(0.19)
-
-
-
(0.19)
 -
-
(0.19)
At March 31, 2024
45.20 
10.93 
-
71.10 
57.65 
 184.88 
 -
-
184.88 
Charge for the year 
6.65 
2.16 
-
10.26 
0.85 
19.92 
 -
-
 19.92 
Disposals/adjustments 
(1.30)
-
-
-
-
(1.30)
 -
-
(1.30)
At March 31, 2025
50.55 
13.09 
-
81.36 
58.50 
 203.50 
 -
-
203.50 
Net carrying amount 
At April 01, 2023
15.80 
6.73 
1,029.00 
21.60 
9.20 
 1,082.33 
310.47 
2.99 
1,395.79 
At March 31, 2024
22.42 
7.59 
1,029.00 
11.30 
0.85 
 1,071.16 
310.47 
1.79 
1,383.42 
At March 31, 2025
26.69 
8.50 
1,029.00 
1.04 
-
 1,065.23 
310.47 
1.72 
1,377.42 
Note:-
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives 
The management has determined budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations of future market scenario. The revenue and profit 
growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports.
The other key assumptions by the management include:
•	
As per industry estimates, the large home appliance and consumer electronics market (majorly including air conditioners, refrigerators, washing 
machines and televisions) is expected to grow at a rate of 15% per annum for next few years. 
•	
Revenue growth supported by distribution expansion and brand salience improvement
•	
Addition and expansion of manufacturing capacities for refrigerators and washing machines is assumed to progress Lloyd towards a full stack 
consumer durable player
•	
Margin improvement through better absorption of costs with scale expansion and operating leverage. The contribution margins are assumed to be in 
the range of 14-15%
Management has performed a sensitivity analysis on the above mentioned key assumptions, based on which, the management believes that the recoverable 
amount of the above mentioned assets of the CGU is more than the carrying amount and a reasonably possible change in the assumptions would not cause 
the carrying amount to exceeds its recoverable amount.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
229
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Assumption
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Approach used in determining value
Weighted average Cost of capital % 
(WACC) after tax (discount rate)
15.43%
15.24%
It has been determined basis risk free rate of return 
adjusted for equity risk premium.
Long Term Growth Rate
5.00%
5.00%
Long term growth rate has been taken basis on overall 
economic growth rate, industry trend & expected long-
term inflation in india.
5.	
Intangible assets under development
As at March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Intangible assets under 
development 
Amount in intangible assets under  
development for a period of
Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 1.72 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.72 
As at March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Intangible assets under 
development 
Amount in intangible assets under  
development for a period of
Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 1.79 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.79 
Note: There are no projects under Intangible assets under development where the completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to 
its original plan.
6.	
Contract Balances
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(A)	 Trade Receivables {refer note (a) below and note 11(A)}
 1,253.99 
 1,157.45 
 1,253.99 
 1,157.45 
(B)	 Contract Assets {refer note (b)}
	
Unsecured, considered good
 12.34 
 39.85 
	
Less : Ioss allowance
 - 
 0.76 
 12.34 
 39.09 
	
Non-current portion
 1.01 
 11.55 
	
Current portion
 11.33 
 27.54 
(C)	 Contract Liability {refer note (c) and note 23(v)}
 110.03 
 103.37 
 110.03 
 103.37 
	
Non-current portion
 5.78 
 4.64 
	
Current portion
 104.25 
 98.73 
Note:
(a)	
Trade Receivables represent the amount of consideration in exchange for goods or services transferred to the customers that is unconditional.
(b)	
During the earlier years, the Company had entered into agreements with customers wherein the Company had identified multiple performance 
obligations as per Ind AS 115 “Revenue from contracts with customers”. The Company’s right to receive consideration is conditional upon 
satisfaction of all performance obligations. Accordingly, the Company has recognised contract assets in respect of performance obligations 
satisfied during the year. The contract asset arises when the Company satisfies a performance obligation but does not have an unconditional 
right to consideration. Contract assets have decreased in the current year due to change in the time frame for a right to consideration to 
become unconditional (i e. for a contract asset to be reclassified to trade receivable). 
(c)	
The Company has entered into the agreements with customer for sale of goods and services. The Company has identified these performance 
obligations and recognised the contract liabilities in respect of contracts, where the Company has obligation to deliver the goods and perform 
specified services to a customer for which the Company has received consideration. There has been no significant change in the contract liabilities.
Havells India Limited
230
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
7.	
Non-Current Financial Assets
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(A)
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES - FINANCIAL ASSETS
Investments in equity instruments (non-traded unquoted)  
(Measured at cost, unless stated otherwise) {refer note 33(1)}
Havells International Inc.*
62.60
20.73
7,687 equity shares of face value $ 1,000 each (March 31, 2024: 2,500 
equity shares)
Havells Guangzhou International Limited 
(100% contribution fully paid in capital) (March 31, 2024: 100% contribution 
fully paid in capital)
0.45 
0.45 
63.05 
21.18 
*Havells International Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, situated in United States of America was incorporated on October 19, 2023.
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(B)
Other Investments
Investment in preference shares (fully paid-up) (measured at fair value through 
profit and loss)
Unquoted
1,84,302 compulsorily convertible cumulative participative preference shares 
in Singularity Furniture Pvt Ltd. (March 31, 2024 1,72,563)
10.98
20.00
 10.98 
 20.00 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(C)
TRADE RECEIVABLES (valued at amortised cost)
Unsecured {refer note 11(A)}
Trade receivables from contracts with customers - considered good
 0.39 
 0.25 
 0.39 
 0.25 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(D)
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (valued at amortised cost) 
Unsecured, considered good
Earnest money and Security Deposits
 36.14 
 32.86 
 36.14 
 32.86 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
231
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
8.	
Other Non-Current Assets
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Capital advances {refer note (a) below}
 77.16 
 126.30 
Others
Prepaid expenses
 4.53 
 4.58 
Deposits with Statutory and Government authorities 
 15.32 
 15.74 
 97.01 
 146.62 
Note: 
(a)	
Capital advances include an amount of ` Nil (March 31,2024: ` 96.45 crores) given to Noida Authority (U.P.) towards acquisition of land.
9.	
CURRENT TAX ASSETS (NET)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current tax assets, net of current tax payable
 22.97 
 34.92 
 22.97 
 34.92 
10.	 Inventories
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(Valued at lower of cost and net realisable value unless otherwise stated)
Raw materials and components
 869.21 
 770.97 
Work-in-progress
 255.98 
 165.62 
Finished goods
 1,907.04 
 1,760.91 
Traded goods
 860.66 
 611.21 
Stores and spares
 57.01 
 57.06 
Loose tools
 2.33 
 3.26 
Packing materials
 25.91 
 22.45 
Scrap materials
 29.23 
 17.04 
 4,007.37 
 3,408.52 
Notes:
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)	 The above includes goods in transit as under:
	
Raw materials
 146.93 
 99.60 
	
Finished goods
 273.58 
 197.59 
	
Traded goods
 28.77 
 29.72 
(b)	 The stock of scrap materials have been taken at net realisable value.
(c)	 During the year ` 4.30 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 35.83 crores) was 
recognised as an expense for inventory carried at net realisable value.
Havells India Limited
232
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
11.	 Current Financial Assets
(A)	 TRADE RECEIVABLES (valued at amortised cost)
	
Unsecured
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Trade receivables from contract with customers – billed
1,354.78
1,253.99
Trade receivables from contract with customers – unbilled  
(refer note (b) below)
5.24
-
Trade receivables (gross)
1,360.02
1,253.99
Less : Loss allowance 
106.03
96.54
Trade receivables (net)
1,253.99
1,157.45
Current portion
 1,253.60 
 1,157.20 
Non - current portion {refer note 7(C)}
 0.39
 0.25
Trade receivables from contract with customers - considered good
 1,323.18 
 1,216.87 
Trade receivables - credit impaired
 36.84 
 37.12 
Trade receivables (gross)
 1,360.02 
 1,253.99 
Less : Loss allowance 
 106.03 
 96.54 
Trade receivables (net)
 1,253.99 
 1,157.45 
Note:
(a) Trade receivables includes from related parties ` 3.28 crores (March 31, 2024 0.03 crores) refer note 33(6)(D)
(b) The receivable is ‘unbilled’ because the Comapany has not yet issued an invoice; however, the balance has been included in 
trade receivables because it is an unconditional right to consideration.
(I) Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2025
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
 Unbilled 
dues 
 Not 
due 
 Less 
than 6 
months 
 6 
months 
- 1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
 Total 
(i)
Undisputed Trade receivables - considered good
5.24 673.20 
524.28
29.75
20.37
20.48
49.86
1323.18
(ii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)
Disputed Trade receivables - considered good
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(v)
Disputed Trade receivables - which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(vi)
Disputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired
-
-
1.38
1.45
5.02
6.28
22.71
36.84
Total
5.24 673.20
525.66
31.20
25.39
26.76
72.57
1360.02
Less : Loss Allowance
-
-
(6.87)
(5.26)
(5.16) (16.17) (72.57)
(106.03)
Total
5.24 673.20
518.79
25.94
20.23
10.59
-
1253.99
(II) Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31,2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
 Unbilled 
dues 
 Not 
due 
 Less 
than 6 
months 
 6 
months 
- 1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
 More 
than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
Undisputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
-
641.89
418.87
29.96
45.19
30.06 
50.90 1,216.87 
(ii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)
Disputed Trade receivables - considered good
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
233
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
 Unbilled 
dues 
 Not 
due 
 Less 
than 6 
months 
 6 
months 
- 1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
 More 
than 
3 years 
 Total 
(v)
Disputed Trade receivables - which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(vi)
Disputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired
-
-
2.51
1.74
6.33
4.94
21.60
37.12 
Total
-
641.89 
421.38 
31.70 
51.52 
35.00 
72.50 1,253.99 
Less : Loss Allowance
-
-
(2.51)
(2.24)
(10.28)
(19.21)
(62.30)
(96.54)
Total
-
641.89 
418.87 
29.46 
41.24 
15.79 
10.20 1,157.45 
(B)	 Cash and Cash Equivalents
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balances with banks:
  Current accounts (net)
 37.93 
 33.92 
  Cash credit accounts 
 31.67 
 69.94 
  Deposits with original maturity of less than three months  
{refer notes (b) and (c)}
 711.94 
 139.36 
  Cash on hand
 0.18 
 0.13 
781.72
243.35
Note:
(a)	
There are no restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the reporting period and prior period.
(b)	
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods from seven days to three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the 
Company and earn interest at the respective short-term deposits rates.
(c)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` 0.95 crores (March 31, 2024 ` 0.53 crores) related to Havells Employees Welfare Trust.
(d)	
Net debts reconciliation
Particulars
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Lease Liabilities
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
243.35 
456.86 
 303.16 
 223.10 
Addition on account of new leases during the year 
{refer note 33(3)}
 106.79 
 131.39 
Deletion on account of termination of leases 
during the year {refer note 33(3)}
 (23.52)
- 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash 
and cash equivalents held in foreign currency
 (4.31)
 (4.54)
- 
- 
Cash flows
542.68 
(208.97)
 (67.89)
 (51.33)
Interest expense
 28.27 
 25.82 
Interest paid
 (28.27)
 (25.82)
Closingbalance 
781.72 
243.35 
 318.54 
 303.16 
Non-current lease liability {refer note 15 (A)}
- 
- 
 241.00 
 242.44 
Current maturity of long term lease liability {refer 
note 19 (A)}
- 
- 
 77.54 
 60.72 
Havells India Limited
234
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(C)	 Other Bank Balances
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deposits account with original maturity of more than three months but expiring less 
than twelve months {refer notes (a) and (d)}
 1,919.32 
 1,228.72 
Deposits account with original maturity of more than twelve months {refer notes (b) 
and (e)}
649.25 
 1,541.18 
Unpaid dividend account {refer note (c)}
 2.29 
 2.17 
 2,570.86
 2,772.07 
Notes:
(a)	
The deposits maintained by the Company with banks comprise of the time deposits, which may be withdrawn by the Company at any 
point of time without prior notice and are made for varying periods from three months to twelve months depending on the immediate cash 
requirements of the Company and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
(b)	
Fixed deposit with original maturity of more than twelve months but remaining maturity of less than twelve months have been disclosed under 
other bank balances. 
(c)	
The Company can utilise the balance towards settlement of unclaimed dividend.
(d)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` 16.75 crores (March 31, 2024 ` 12.31 crores) related to Havells Employees Welfare Trust.
(e)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` Nil (March 31, 2024 ` 0.69 crores) related to Havells Employees Welfare Trust.
(D)	 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (valued at amortised cost) 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Earnest money and security deposits
 3.80 
 4.30 
Contractual claims and other receivables {refer note (a)}
 1.85 
 16.69 
 5.65 
 20.99 
Notes:
(a)	
Contractual claims and other receivables includes claims in accordance with contract with vendors.
12.	 Other Current Assets 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Advances other than capital advances
Advances for materials and services
 25.54 
 99.76 
Others
Prepaid expenses (refer note (b))
 60.31 
 44.64 
Duty credit license in hand
 1.04 
 0.47 
Right to returned goods (refer note 22)
 30.13 
 30.13 
Government grant receivable (refer note (a))
 4.16 
 13.58 
Balance with Statutory and Government authorities/Others
 43.13 
 45.51 
 164.31 
 234.09 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
235
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Movement of Government grant receivable
Opening balance
 13.58 
 4.98 
Accrual of grant related to income (credited to statement of profit and loss 
account) (refer note 23 and 24)
 33.44 
 25.72 
Grant related to asset realised 
 - 
 (3.21)
Grant related to income realised 
 (42.86)
 (13.91)
Closing Balance 
 4.16 
 13.58 
Note:
(a)	
Government grant receivable includes export incentive, budgetary support for refund of Goods and Service Tax and other government 
incentives.
(b)	
Prepaid expenses include an amount of ` 1.32 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 0.65 crores) representing excess spent of Corporate Social 
Responsibility.
13.	 Assets Classified as Held for Sale
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Assets retired from active use 
 3.42 
 2.18 
 3.42 
 2.18 
Note:
Assets retired from active use consists of bulding, plant & machinery, dies and tools, furniture and fixtures, office equipments and electrical 
installations. The said assets will be disposed off within next six months by sale to third parties.
14.	 Equity
(A)	 Share capital
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)	 Authorized Share Capital 
	
1,03,20,00,000 equity shares of ` 1/- each (March 31,2024: 1,03,20,00,000 
equity shares of `1/- each)
 103.20 
 103.20 
	
5,50,000 preference shares of `10/- each (March 31,2024: 5,50,000 preference 
shares of `10/- each)
 0.55 
 0.55 
 103.75 
 103.75 
b)	 Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up
	
62,69,41,732 equity shares of ` 1/- each (March 31, 2024: 62,66,83,030 equity 
shares of ` 1/- each) 
 62.69 
 62.67 
c)	
Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
No. of shares
` in crores
No. of shares
` in crores
At the beginning of the year
 62,66,83,030 
 62.67 
 62,65,09,738 
 62.65 
Add: Exercise of employee stock purchase plan  
{refer note 33(7)}
 2,58,702 
 0.03 
 1,73,292 
 0.02 
 62,69,41,732 
 62.69 
 62,66,83,030 
 62.67 
Havells India Limited
236
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
d)	
Shareholding of promoters
S. 
No
Shares held by promoters at the end 
of the year
 As at  
March 31, 2025 
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 % change 
during the year 
Promoter Name
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta (as Managing Trustee 
of ARG Family Trust)
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
0.00%
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta (as Trustee of 
SKG Family Trust)
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
0.00%
3
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
 25,86,00,540 
41.25%
 25,86,00,540 
41.26%
0.00%
Total
 37,24,57,920 
59.41%
 37,24,57,920 
59.42%
S. 
No
Shares held by promoters at the 
beginning of the year
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
 % change 
during the year 
Promoter Name
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta (as Managing Trustee 
of ARG Family Trust)
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
0.00%
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta (as Trustee of 
SKG Family Trust)
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
 3,64,32,180 
5.82%
0.00%
3
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
 25,86,00,540 
41.26%
 25,86,00,540 
41.28%
0.00%
Total
 37,24,57,920 
59.42%
 37,24,57,920 
59.45%
e)	
Terms/rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of issued share capital i.e. equity shares having a par value of ` 1/- per share (March 
31,2024 : ` 1/- per share). Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays 
dividend in Indian rupees. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in 
the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
	
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the 
Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, if any. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity 
shares held by the shareholders.
f)	
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company is set out below (representing legal 
and beneficial ownership):
Name of Shareholders
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
No. of shares
% holding No. of shares
% holding 
Shri Anil Rai Gupta as Managing Trustee of ARG Family Trust
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta as Trustee of SKG Family Trust
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
 25,86,00,540 
41.25%
 25,86,00,540 
41.26%
Nalanda India Equity Fund Limited
 2,58,20,184 
4.12%
 3,30,44,930 
5.27%
g)	
Shares reserved for issue under Employee stock purchase plan
	
Information relating to Employee stock purchase plan, including details of options issued, exercised and lapsed during the 
financial year and options outstanding as at the end of the reporting period are set out in note 33 (7).
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
237
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(B)	 Other Equity
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Capital reserve
 7.63 
 7.63 
Securities premium
 211.97 
 169.45 
Share option outstanding account
 17.01 
 6.56 
General reserve
 722.72 
 722.72 
Retained earnings
 7,308.97 
 6,469.42 
Total other equity
 8,268.30 
 7,375.78 
a)
Capital reserve
7.63 
7.63 
b)
Securities premium
Opening balance
 169.45 
 148.15 
Add: Exercise of Employee stock purchase plan - proceeds received
 42.52 
 21.30 
Closing balance
 211.97 
 169.45 
c)
Stock options outstanding account
Opening balance
 6.56 
 2.30 
Add : Options recognised during the year
 18.17 
 7.67 
Less : Options vested and exercised during the year
 (7.72)
 (3.41)
Closing balance
 17.01 
 6.56 
d)
General reserve
 722.72 
 722.72 
e)
Retained earnings
Opening balance
 6,469.42 
 5,671.03 
Net profit for the year
 1,488.84 
 1,273.21 
Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained 
earnings
Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans (net of tax)
 (22.36)
 (4.81)
Dividends
Final Dividend of ` 6.00 per share for FY 2023-24 (` 4.50 per share for  
FY 2022-23)
 (376.15)
 (282.01)
Interim dividend of ` 4.00 per share for FY 2024-25 (` 3.00 per share for FY 
2023-24)
 (250.78)
 (188.00)
Closing balance
 7,308.97 
 6,469.42 
(C)	 Nature and Purpose of Reserves
	
(a)	
Capital reserve
	
	
During amalgamation/ merger approved by honourable court, the excess of net assets taken over the consideration 
paid, if any, is treated as capital reserve. This capital reserve has arisen as a result of scheme of amalgamation in the 
past periods.
	
(b)	 Securities premium
	
	
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for limited 
purposes such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Havells India Limited
238
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
(c)	
General reserve
	
	
Under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956, general reserve was created through an annual transfer of net income at a 
specified percentage in accordance with applicable regulations adjusted by utilisation of reserve in accordance with 
scheme of Amalgamation in earlier years. The requirement to mandatorily transfer a specified percentage of the net profit 
to general reserve before declaration of dividend has been withdrawn. However, the amount previously transferred to the 
general reserve can be utilised only in accordance with the specific requirements of Companies Act, 2013.
	
(d)	 Share options outstanding account
	
	
The share option outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees 
under Employee stock purchase plan.
	
(e)	
Retained earnings
	
	
Retained Earnings are profits that the Company has earned till date less transfer to General Reserve, dividend or other 
distribution or transaction with shareholders.
15.	 Non Current Financial Liabilities
(A)	 Lease Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Lease Liabilities {refer note 33(3)} 
 241.00 
 242.44 
 241.00 
 242.44 
(B)	 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (valued at amortised cost)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Employees Contribution pursuant to employee stock purchase plan
 0.73 
 0.67 
Long term employee retention scheme
 0.35 
 0.45 
Other Liabilities (retention money)
 1.18 
 2.93 
 2.26 
 4.05 
16.	 Non Current Provisions
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for Gratuity 
 7.44 
 5.98 
Provision for other employee benefit plans {compensated absences, refer note 33(4)}
 12.60 
 11.34 
Product warranties and E-waste {Refer note 20(a)}
 34.70 
 70.40 
 54.74 
 87.72 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
239
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
17.	 Income Taxes
The major components of income tax expense for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are:
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)	
Income tax expense in the statement of profit and loss comprises :
Current tax charge
513.13 
440.84 
Adjustment in respect of current tax of previous year
(10.68)
(0.23)
Total current income tax
502.45 
440.61 
Deferred tax charge / (credit)
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 
17.80 
(3.99)
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit or loss
520.25 
436.62 
(b)	 Other Comprehensive Income 
Current income tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year:
Current income tax on re-measurement loss on defined benefit plans
7.54 
1.62 
Income tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year
7.54 
1.62 
(c)	
Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by 
India’s domestic tax rate :
Accounting Profit before tax
2,009.09 
1,709.83 
Applicable tax rate
25.168%
25.168%
Computed Tax Expense
505.65 
430.33 
Expenses not allowed for tax purpose
 13.17 
9.80 
Additional allowances for tax 
(0.11)
(0.17)
Others
1.54 
(3.34)
Income tax charged to Statement of Profit and Loss at effective rate of 
25.89% (March 31, 2024: 25.54%) {Refer Note (ii) below}
520.25 
436.62 
(d)	 Deferred tax liabilities comprises :
(` in crores)
 Balance Sheet 
Statement of profit and loss 
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
422.54 
404.63 
 17.91 
 10.79 
Right of Use as per Ind AS 116
 71.82 
 69.79 
2.03 
 17.11 
Lease liability as per Ind AS 116
(80.17)
(76.30)
(3.87)
 (20.15)
Expenses allowable on payment basis
(13.27)
(17.97)
4.70 
(8.15)
Allowance for doubtful debts
(26.68)
(24.48)
(2.20)
(2.42)
Other Items giving rise to temporary differences
1.08 
1.85 
(0.77)
(1.17)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
375.32 
357.52 
 17.80 
(3.99)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
Opening balance as per last balance sheet
357.52
361.51
Deferred tax charged/(credited) to profit and 
loss account during the year
7.14
(2.62)
Adjustment in respect of deferred tax of previous year
 10.66
(1.37) 
Closing balance
375.32
357.52
Havells India Limited
240
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes:
(i)	
The Company has unabsorbed capital loss of ` 177.31crores as on March 31, 2025 (March 31, 2024: ` 171.09 crores) out of which capital 
loss of ` 122.30 crores will expire in financial year 2025-26, capital loss of ` 27.51 crores will expire in financial year 2029-30, capital loss of 
` 21.28 crores will expire in financial year 2030-31 and capital loss of ` 6.20 crores will expire in financial year 2032-33, on which no deferred 
tax asset has been created by the management due to lack of probability of future capital gain against which such deferred tax assets can 
be realised. If the Company were able to recognise all unrecognised deferred tax assets, the profit after tax would have increased by ` 40.57 
crores (March 31, 2024: ` 39.15 Crore). 
(ii)	
Effective tax rate has been calculated on profit before tax.
18.	 Other Non-Current Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Other non-current liabilities (pertains to advance discount received)
 4.31 
 6.48 
 4.31 
 6.48 
19.	 Current Financial Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(A)
Lease Liabilities
Current maturities of Lease liability {refer note 33 (3)} 
 77.54 
 60.72 
 77.54 
 60.72 
(B)
Trade Payables
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises; and
 198.88 
 203.70 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 2,841.19 
 2,487.00 
 3,040.07 
 2,690.70 
Notes:
(i)	
Trade Payables include dues to related parties ` 35.57 crores (March 31, 2024 : ` 24.87 crores) {refer note 33(6)(D)}, For terms and 
conditions with related parties. {refer to note 33(6)}
(ii)	
The amounts are unsecured and non interest-bearing and are usually on varying trade term.
(iii)	
The amounts falling in the category of more than 1 year are related to pending obligations on the part of the supplier as per agreed terms 
and conditions mentioned in respective contracts.
a)	
Information as required to be furnished as per section 22 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (MSMED Act) 
for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 is given below. This information has been determined to the extent such parties 
have been identified on the basis of information available with the Company.
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
i)	
Principal amount and interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier covered 
under MSMED Act, 2006 as at the end of each accounting year
	
Principal 
 198.88 
 203.70 
	
Interest
- 
 - 
ii)	
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16, of the MSMED Act, 2006 
along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
during each accounting year.
- 
 - 
iii)	
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which 
have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the 
interest specified under MSMED Act, 2006
- 
 - 
iv)	
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year.
- 
 - 
v)	
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such 
date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the micro and small enterprises for the 
purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under section 23 of the MSMED Act, 2006.
- 
 - 
The total dues of Micro and Small Enterprises which were outstanding for more than stipulated 
period are ` Nil (March 31, 2024 : ` Nil)
- 
 - 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
241
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Trade payables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2025
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues
Not due 
 Less than 
1 year 
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
MSME
 - 
 198.88 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 198.88 
(ii)
Others
 290.23  2,311.73 
 233.50 
 3.37 
 0.01 
 0.86  2,839.70 
(iii)
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 1.39 
 1.49 
Total
 290.23  2,510.61 
 233.50 
 3.37 
 0.11 
 2.25  3,040.07 
Trade payables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues
 Not due 
Less than 
1 year 
1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
MSME
 - 
 195.80 
 7.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 203.70 
(ii)
Others
 125.09  2,002.58 
 349.39 
 7.61 
 0.84 
 - 
 2,485.51 
(iii)
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 - 
 1.39 
 1.49 
Total
 125.09  2,198.38 
 357.29 
 7.71 
 0.84 
 1.39 
 2,690.70 
(C)	 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (valued at amortised cost)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unpaid dividend {refer note below}
 2.29 
 2.17 
Other payables
ESPP compensation payable
 2.68 
 2.25 
Creditors for capital goods
 53.59 
 50.54 
Deposits from customers
 62.60 
 55.18 
Retention Money
 34.88 
 39.40 
Other liabilities
Employee benefit obligations
 190.18 
 162.53 
Sales incentives payable 
 512.26 
 468.34 
Others 
 6.86 
 7.27 
 865.34 
 787.68 
Notes:
Investor Education and Protection Fund is being credited by the amount of unclaimed dividend after seven years from the due date. The Company 
has transferred ` 0.19 crores (March 31,2024 : `0.24 crores) out of unclaimed dividend to Investor Education and Protection Fund of Central 
Government in accordance with the provisions of section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013.
20.	 Current Provisions
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
i) Provision for employee benefits
Gratuity employee benefit plans {refer note no. 33(4)}
 57.56 
 30.56 
 Other employee benefit plans (compensated absences)
 3.33 
 1.48 
(A)
 60.89 
 32.04 
ii) Other provisions
Product warranties {refer note (a)}
 264.80 
 236.53 
Litigations {refer note (b)}
 9.21 
 9.10 
(B)
 274.01 
 245.63 
(A) + (B)
 334.90 
 277.67 
Havells India Limited
242
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
a)	
Provision for product warranties
(i)	
Warranties
	
A provision is recognized for expected warranty claims and after sales services on products sold during the last one to seven 
years, based on past experience of the level of repairs and defective returns. It is expected that significant portion of these 
costs will be incurred in the next financial year and all will be incurred within seven years after the reporting date. Assumptions 
used to calculate the provisions for warranties are based on current sales levels and current information available about 
defective returns based on one to seven years warranty period for all products sold and are consistent with those in the prior 
years. The assumptions made in relation to the current year are consistent with those in the prior year.
(ii)	
The table below gives information about movement in Warranties and E-waste provision
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
At the beginning of the year
 306.93 
 369.57 
Charged/(credited) to profit or loss
- additional provisions recognized (refer note 31)
 359.89 
 235.53 
- unwinding of discount {refer note no. 29 }
 7.52 
 12.11 
Amounts used during the period
 (374.84)
 (310.28)
At the end of year
 299.50 
 306.93 
Current portion
 264.80 
 236.53 
Non-current portion {refer note no. 16}
 34.70 
 70.40 
b)	
Provision for litigations
	
Provision for litigation amounting to ` 9.21 Crores (March 31, 2024: ` 9.10 Crores) is created against demands raised in various 
ongoing litigations in ordinary course of business. Based on the facts of the case and legal precedents ,the management 
believes there would be a probable outflow of resources and accordingly, has created a provision in books of account.
	
The table below gives information about movement in litigation provisions:
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
At the beginning of the year
 9.10 
 6.70 
Charged/(credited) to profit or loss
 0.11 
 2.40 
Amounts used during the period
 - 
 - 
At the end of year
 9.21 
 9.10 
Current portion
 9.21 
 9.10 
Non-current portion
 - 
 - 
21.	 Current Tax Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current tax liabilities (net of advance tax and tax deducted at source amounting to 
` 443.13 crores (March 31, 2024 ` 354.06 crores)
 62.68 
 85.20 
 62.68 
 85.20 
22.	 Other Current Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Refund Liability*
 42.59 
 42.59 
Goods and Services Tax Payable
 148.84 
 156.98 
Other statutory dues payable
 81.88 
 76.09 
Others
 2.46 
 2.17 
 275.77 
 277.83 
*The Company has recognised a refund liability for the Sales return from customers amounting to ` 42.59 crores (March 31, 2024: 42.59 crores), 
which is in the normal course of business. The Company has also recognised a right to recover the returned goods ` 30.13 crores (March 31, 2024: 
30.13 crores). The costs to recover the products are not material because the customers usually return the product in a saleable condition.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
243
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
23.	 Revenue From Operations
(` in crores)
 Year ended 
March 31, 2025
 Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue from contract with customers:
Sale of products 
21,480.70 
18,358.88 
Sales of services
87.13 
74.32 
 (A) 
21,567.83 
18,433.20 
Other operating revenues
Export Incentive
16.16 
13.50 
Government grant received
12.00 
 -
Scrap sales
149.82 
103.20 
 (B) 
177.98 
116.70 
Total revenue from operations
 (A) + (B) 
21,745.81 
18,549.90 
(i)
Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time
21,630.52 
18,462.08 
Services transferred over the time
87.13 
74.32 
Total revenue from contract with customers
21,717.65 
18,536.40 
Add : Export Incentive
16.16 
13.50 
Add : Government grant received
12.00 
 -
Total revenue from operations
21,745.81 
18,549.90 
(ii)
Disaggregation of revenue based on product or service
Switchgears
 2,391.15 
2,239.19 
Cables
 7,174.23 
6,312.11 
Lighting and fixtures
 1,652.96 
1,626.65 
Electrical consumer durables
 4,009.53 
3,480.18 
Lloyd Consumer
 5,111.00 
3,784.83 
Others
 1,378.78 
1,093.44 
Total revenue from contract with Customers*
21,717.65 
18,536.40 
(iii) Revenue by location of customers
India 
 20,917.68 
17,933.17 
Outside India
 799.97 
603.23 
Total revenue from contract with customers
 21,717.65 
18,536.40 
Add : Export Incentive
 16.16 
 13.50 
Add : Government grant received
 12.00 
 - 
Total revenue from operations
 21,745.81 
 18,549.90 
(iv) Reconciliation of revenue recognised in statement of profit 
and loss with contracted price
Revenue as per contracted price
 21,831.51 
 18,644.50 
Less: Cash discount
 (113.86)
 (108.10)
Total revenue from contract with customers
 21,717.65 
 18,536.40 
Add : Export Incentive
 16.16 
 13.50 
Add : Government grant received
 12.00 
 - 
Total revenue from operations
 21,745.81 
 18,549.90 
* Includes revenue from installation services and service-type warranties.
Havells India Limited
244
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(v)	
Performance obligation
	
Sale of products: Performance obligation in respect of sale of goods is satisfied when control of the goods is transferred to 
the customer, generally on delivery/ dispatch of the goods as applicable and payment is generally due as per the terms of 
contract with customers.
	
Sales of services: The performance obligation in respect of maintenance services is satisfied over a period of time and 
acceptance of the customer. In respect of these services, payment is generally due upon completion of maintenance period 
based on time elapsed and acceptance of the customer. In certain non-standard contracts, where the Company provides 
warranties in service of consumer durable goods, the same is accounted for as a separate performance obligation and 
a portion of the transaction price is allocated based on its relative standalone prices. The performance obligation for the 
warranty service is satisfied over a period of time based on time elapsed.
	
The transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligation (unsatisfied performance obligation) pertaining to sales 
of goods and services as at March 31, 2025 and expected time to recognise the same as revenue is as follows:-
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Within one year
 104.25 
 98.73 
More than one year
 5.78 
 4.64 
 110.03 
 103.37 
Note: The remaining performance obligation expected to be recognised in more than one year relates to amounts received from customers against 
which performance obligation is to be satisfied over a period of one to four years. All other remaining performance obligations are expected to be 
recognised within one year. During the year ended March 31, 2025, revenue recognised from amount included in contract liability at the beginning 
of year is ` 98.73 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 82.53 crores).
(vi)	 Disclosure pursuant to Appendix C of Ind AS 115
	
The Company was awarded a contract for replacement of existing conventional street/ park lights with LED street/ park lights 
by a Municipal Corporation in April 2017. As per the agreement, the Company shall also be responsible for the operation and 
maintenance of LED street/ park lights for a period of 7 years after installation which will be completed in FY 2026-27. The 
consideration received by the Company under the contract is based on the energy savings resulting from the LED street/ park 
lights. The revenue recognised during the year and the contract assets balance as at year-end from such contract amounts 
to ` 46.34 Crores (March 31, 2024: ` 43.34 crores) and ` 12.34 Crores (March 31, 2024: ` 30.32 crores) respectively.
24.	 Other Income
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest received on financial assets carried at amortised cost:
Deposits with banks
 218.12 
 173.87 
Investment
 - 
 2.25 
Unwinding income on security deposits
 7.45 
 8.76 
Other non-operating income 
Exchange fluctuations (net)
 38.92 
 33.45 
Profit on sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
 - 
 10.27 
Discount on License utilised
 0.06 
 0.34 
Government Grant (refer note below)
 5.28 
 9.01 
Insurance claim received
 17.05 
 - 
Miscellaneous income
 15.59 
 10.78 
 302.47 
 248.73 
Note: Government grant includes subsidy from government authorities in form of Goods and Services Tax refund.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
245
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
25.	 Cost of Raw Materials and Components Consumed
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Copper
 4,314.25 
 3,660.53 
Aluminium
 1,486.37 
 1,134.00 
General plastic and Engineering Plastic
 536.07 
 463.58 
Paints and chemicals
 507.60 
 477.60 
Steel
 355.51 
 323.43 
Packing materials
 437.20 
 390.52 
Other material
 4,362.30 
 3,424.11 
 11,999.30 
 9,873.77 
26.	 Purchase of Traded Goods
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Switchgears
 153.74 
 129.02 
Lighting and fixtures
 398.33 
 410.79 
Electrical consumer durables
 900.76 
 659.27 
Lloyd Consumer
 926.03 
 792.61 
Cables
 0.31 
 0.59 
Others
 708.31 
 427.74 
 3,087.48 
 2,420.02 
27.	 Change in Inventories of Finished Goods, Traded Goods and Work-in-Progress
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(Increase)/ 
Decrease
Inventories at the end of the year
Finished goods
 1,907.04 
 1,760.91 
 (146.13)
Traded goods
 860.66 
 611.21 
 (249.45)
Work in progress
 255.98 
 165.62 
 (90.36)
Scrap materials
 29.23 
 17.04 
 (12.19)
 3,052.91 
 2,554.78 
 (498.13)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31,2023
(Increase)/ 
Decrease
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Finished goods
 1,760.91 
 1,764.20 
 3.29 
Traded goods
 611.21 
 851.64 
 240.43 
Work in progress
 165.62 
 165.56 
 (0.06)
Scrap materials
 17.04 
 16.11 
 (0.93)
 2,554.78 
 2,797.51 
 242.73 
Havells India Limited
246
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
28.	 Employee Benefits Expenses
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Salaries, wages, bonus, commission and other benefits
 1,688.86 
 1,415.31 
Contribution towards Provident Fund, Family Pension and ESI
 63.66 
 55.72 
Employee stock purchase plan expense {refer note no. 33(7)}
 47.88 
 27.00 
Gratuity expense {refer note no. 33(4)}
 27.72 
 24.78 
Staff welfare expenses
 23.70 
 18.25 
 1,851.82 
 1,541.06 
29.	 Finance Costs
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest expense on Security Deposits and others
 0.09 
 1.44 
Interest on Income tax
 7.18 
 6.18 
Interest on lease liability {refer note no. 33(3)}
 28.27 
 25.82 
Other financial expenses
 0.18 
 0.16 
Total interest expense
 35.72 
 33.60 
Unwinding of discount on long term provisions {refer note no. 20(a)(ii)}
 7.52 
 12.11 
Total Finance cost
 43.24 
 45.71 
30.	 Depreciation and Amortisation Expenses
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment {refer note 3}
 295.59 
 243.66 
Amortization of intangible assets {refer note 4}
 19.92 
 26.55 
Depreciation of Right of use assets (refer note 3)
 83.21 
 68.27 
 398.72 
 338.48 
31.	 Other Expenses
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Consumption of stores and spares
 66.36 
 59.92 
Power and fuel
 157.11 
 135.33 
Job work and service charges
 464.10 
 377.14 
Rent
 28.69 
 48.47 
Repairs and maintenance:
	
Plant and machinery
 56.63 
 40.57 
	
Buildings
 4.85 
 4.60 
	
Others
 36.32 
 29.87 
Information technology expenses
 96.89 
 84.41 
Rates and taxes
 3.12 
 8.73 
Insurance
 32.16 
 32.42 
Trade mark fee and royalty
 0.63 
 0.63 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
247
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Travelling and conveyance
 197.56 
 145.76 
Communication expenses
 5.89 
 5.42 
Legal and professional charges
 30.35 
 30.56 
Payment to Auditors
Audit fee
 1.45 
 1.35 
Certification and other service fee
 0.47 
 0.47 
Reimbursement of expenses
 0.18 
 0.16 
Payment to Tax Auditors
Tax audit fee
 0.04 
 0.04 
Contribution towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) {refer note no. 33(8)} 
 32.28 
 30.21 
Directors sitting fees
 0.97 
 1.01 
Freight and forwarding expense
 678.09 
 605.66 
Advertisement and sales promotion
 622.40 
 527.36 
Commission on sales
 142.21 
 130.34 
Product warranties and after sales services 
 359.89 
 235.53 
Bank Charges
 28.58 
 38.43 
Loss on sale/ discard of property, plant and equipment (net)
 15.10 
 - 
Fair value loss on investment
 9.03 
 - 
Miscellaneous expenses
 42.49 
 35.02 
 3,113.84 
 2,609.41 
31A.	Net Impairment Losses on Financial and Contract Assets
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Loss allowance on trade receivable and contract assets
 8.73 
 9.64 
Bad debts written off
 34.19 
 7.98 
 42.92 
 17.62 
32.	 Commitments and Contingencies
(` in crores)
As At 
March 31, 2025
As At 
March 31, 2024
A Contingent liabilities (to the extent not provided for)
a Claims / Suits filed against the Company not acknowledged as debts (Refer point (i))
 10.56 
 6.67 
b Disputed tax liabilities in respect of pending litigations before appellate authorities
 57.36 
 110.25 
{Amount deposited under protest ` 4.16 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 10.20 
crores), included in “Deposit with Statutory and Government authorities” in note 
no. 8) {refer point (ii)}
Notes:
i) Claims / suits filed against the Company not acknowledged as debts which represents various legal cases filed against the company. The 
Company has disclaimed the liability and defending the action. The Company has been advised by its legal counsel that its position is likely to be 
upheld in the litigation process and accordingly no provision for any liability has been made in the financial statement.
Havells India Limited
248
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
ii) The various disputed tax litigations are as under :
(` in crores)
Sl. Description {refer note below}
Period to which 
relates
Disputed amount 
As At 
March 31, 2025
Period to which 
relates
Disputed amount 
As At 
March 31, 2024
a)
Excise / Customs / Service Tax
Demands raised by Excise and 
Custom department.
 2007-08 to  
2009-10, 2015-16 to 
2023-24 
27.62  1994-97, 2007-08 to 
2009-10, 2015-16 to 
2020-21 
24.13
b)
Income Tax*
Disallowances / additions made by 
the income tax department.
2009-10, 2010-11, 
2013-14, 2014-15 
and 2022-23
24.32
2008-09 
to  
2014-15 and 2016-17
27.52
c)
Goods and Service Tax
Demands raised by GST 
Department
2017-18, 
2019-20, 2020-21 
and 2022-23
3.74
2017-18,  
2019-20 and 2022-23
56.58
d)
Sales Tax / VAT
Demands raised by Sales tax / VAT 
department.
 2003-04, 2005-06 
to 2011-12 and 
2016-17
1.56  2003-04, 2005-06 to 
2011-12 and 2016-17 
1.87
e)
Others
Demand of local area development 
tax by the concerned authorities.
2001-02
0.12
2001-02
0.12
Demand of octroi along with 
penalty in the state of Maharashtra 
by the concerned authorities.
-
2010-11 
0.03
57.36
110.25
Notes:
The above figures are net of provisions made by the Company. The Company is contesting these demands and the management believe that 
its position is likely to be upheld in the appellate process. The management believes that the ultimate outcome of this proceeding will not have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. 
*Based on favourable decisions in similar cases, the Company does not expect any liability against these matters in accordance with principles 
of Ind AS -12 ‘Income taxes’ read with Ind AS -37; Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ and hence no provision has been 
considered in the books of accounts except for provision created in respect of few years {refer note 20(ii)}.
The above amounts contain interest and penalty where included in the order issued by the department to the Company
B.	
Commitments 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Estimated amount of capital contracts remaining to be executed and not provided for 
(Net of Advances amounting to ` 77.16 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 131.98 crores))
 865.18 
 268.86 
 865.18 
 268.86 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
249
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
C	
Undrawn committed borrowing facility
	
During the Year, the company has availed fund and non fund based unsecured working capital limit amounting to ` 942.50 
crores (March 31, 2024: 1142.50 crores) under multiple banking arrangements from IDBI Bank Limited, Yes Bank Limited, 
Standard Chartered Bank Limited, HSBC Bank, ICICI Bank Limited, IndusInd Bank Limited, HDFC Bank Limited, DBS Bank 
Limited and CITI Bank N.A. An amount of ` 573.27 crores (March 31, 2024: 836.75 crores) remain undrawn as at March 31, 
2025. Drawn amount is related to non fund based bank guarantee and letter of credit.
D	
Other Litigations
	
The company has taken provisions amounting ` 9.21 Crores (March 31, 2024 : ` 9.10 Crores) against the income tax and 
other sales tax related litigations. These provisions represent estimates made where liability has been assessed as probable. 
The probability and the timing of the outflow with regard to these matters depend on the final outcome of the litigations/
disputes. Hence, the Company is not able to reasonably ascertain the timing of the outflow.
E	
The Company has outstanding obligation amounting to ` 0.12 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 0.72 crores) in respect of bonds 
given to central tax department against import of goods at concessional rate of basic custom duty. The Company expects to 
fulfil the obligation in due course of time.
F	
The Company has export obligation of ` 224.55 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 236.44 crores) on account of import duty 
exemption of ` 11.85 crores (March 31, 2024: `12.56 crore) on capital goods under the Export Promotion Capital Goods 
(EPCG) and ` 0.05 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 0.79 crores) Advance Authorisation scheme laid down by the Government of 
India. The Company expects to fulfil the obligation in due course of time.
33.	 Other Notes to Financial Statements
1.	
Investment in subsidiaries
	
The Company ‘s investments in subsidiaries are as under:
Name of the subsidiaries
Country of 
incorporation
Portion of ownership 
interest as at  
March 31, 2025
Portion of ownership 
interest as at  
March 31, 2024
Method used to 
account for the 
investment 
Havells International Inc.*
United States of 
America
100%
100%
At cost
Havells Guangzhou International 
Limited
China
100%
100%
At cost
* Incorporated on Oct,19th 2023
2.	
During the year, the Company has capitalised the following expenses directly relatable to the cost of property, plant and 
equipment and capital work-in progress, being expenses related to projects and development of Dies and Fixtures. 
Consequently, expenses disclosed under the respective notes are net of amounts capitalised by the Company.
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cost of material consumed
 10.09 
 14.48 
Employee benefits expense
 8.80 
 4.39 
Other expenses
 5.18 
 5.31 
 24.07 
 24.18 
3.	
Leases
i	
The Company’s lease asset primarily consist of leases for land and buildings for branch offices and warehouses having 
the various lease terms . The Company also has certain leases of with lease terms of 12 months or less. The Company 
applies the ‘short-term lease’  recognition exemption for these leases. Payment made towards leases of low value assets 
other than building and warehouse are recognized in the statement of Profit and Loss as rental expenses over the tenure 
of such leases.
Havells India Limited
250
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
ii	
Following is carrying value of right of use assets and the movements thereof :
(` in crores)
Particulars
Right of Use Asset
Total
Leasehold Land
Leasehold Building
Balance as at April 01, 2023
222.71
209.32
 432.03 
Additions during the year
 0.30 
133.72
 134.02 
Deletion during the year
 (0.15)
 - 
 (0.15)
Depreciation of Right of use assets (refer note 30)
 (2.54)
 (65.73)
 (68.27)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 220.32 
277.31
 497.63 
Additions during the year
 145.39 
108.61
 254.00 
Deletion during the year
 - 
 (21.20)
 (21.20)
Depreciation on Right of use assets (refer note 30)
 (3.84)
 (79.37)
 (83.21)
Balance as at March 31, 2025 
 361.87 
285.35
 647.22 
iii	
The following is the carrying value of lease liability and movement thereof :
(` in crores)
Particulars
Amount
Balance as at April 01, 2023
223.10
Additions during the year
 131.39 
Finance cost accrued during the year
 25.82 
Deletion during the year
 - 
Payment of lease liabilities including interest
 (77.15)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 303.16 
Additions during the year
 106.79 
Finance cost accrued during the year
 28.27 
Deletion during the year
 (23.52)
Payment of lease liabilities including interest
 (96.16)
Balance as at March 31, 2025 
 318.54 
Current maturities of Lease liability {refer note 19 (A)} 
 77.54 
Non-Current Lease Liability {refer note 15 (A)} 
 241.00 
 318.54 
iv	
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in Note 33(10).
v	
The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities is 8.5%
vi	
Amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss during the year
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets - leasehold building
 79.37 
 65.73 
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets - leasehold land
 3.84 
 2.54 
Finance cost accrued during the year (included in finance cost) (refer note 29)
 28.27 
 25.82 
Expense related to short term and low value leases (included in other expense) 
(refer note 31)
 28.69 
 48.47 
vii	
The Company does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities as the current assets are sufficient to 
meet the obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
251
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
viii	 The Company has applied a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases of a similar assets in similar economic environment 
with similar end date.
ix	
Non-cash investing activities during the year:
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Acquisition of right of use assets 
 254.00 
 134.02 
Disposals of right of use assets 
 (21.20)
 (0.15)
x	
Extension and termination options are included in a number of property and equipment leases across the company. These 
are used to maximise operational flexibility in terms of managing the assets used in the company’s operations. The majority 
of extension and termination options held are exercisable only by the company and not by the respective lessor.
xi	
As at March 31, 2025, potential future cash outflows of ` 382.91 (March 31, 2024: ` 255.38) (undiscounted) have not been 
included in the lease liability because it is not reasonably certain that the leases will be extended (or not terminated).
4.	
Gratuity and other post-employment benefit plans
	
Disclosures pursuant to Ind AS - 19 “Employee Benefits” (notified under the section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (the Act) 
read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rule 2015 (as amended from time to time) and other relevant provision 
of the Act) are given below :
	
Contribution to Defined Contribution Plan, recognised as expense for the year is as under:
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Employer’s Contribution towards Provident Fund (PF)
63.42
55.43
Employer’s Contribution towards Employee State Insurance (ESI)
0.24
0.29
63.66
55.72
	
Compensated absences
	
The provision for compensated absences covers the liability for earned leave as per actuarial valuation, the amount of provision 
recognised is ` 15.94 crores (March 31, 2024 ` 12.82 Crores), net of amount funded with Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd 
of `12.82 crores (March 31, 2024 ` NIL)
	
Defined Benefit Plan
	
The employees’ Gratuity Fund Scheme, which is a defined benefit plan, is managed by the trust which maintains its 
investments with Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd. The gratuity plan is governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. 
Under the gratuity plan, every employee who has completed at least five years of service gets a gratuity on departure at 15 
days of last drawn basic salary for each completed year of service. The present value of obligation is determined based on 
actuarial valuation using the Projected Unit Credit Method, which recognises each period of service as giving rise to additional 
unit of employee benefit entitlement and measures each unit separately to build up the final obligation.
	
The following tables summaries the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit or loss, the 
funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the respective plans:
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
a)
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of Defined Benefit 
obligation
Present value of Defined Benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
209.18
177.81
Interest Expense
13.38 
12.67 
Current Service Cost
26.67 
 23.88 
Benefit paid
(16.41)
(10.95)
Remeasurement of (Gain)/loss recognised in other comprehensive income:
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
38.02 
1.86 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments
 (4.88)
3.91 
Present value of Defined Benefit obligation at year end
265.96
209.18
Havells India Limited
252
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
b)
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of fair value of plan 
assets
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year
172.64
142.45
Expected return on plan assets
12.33
11.77
Employer contribution
28.15 
29.07 
Remeasurement of Gain/(loss) in other comprehensive income
Return on Plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest expense
3.24 
(0.66)
Benefits paid
(15.40)
(9.99)
Fair value of plan assets at year end
200.96
172.64
c)
Net defined benefit asset/ (liability) recognised in the balance sheet
Fair value of plan assets
200.96 
172.64 
Present value of defined benefit obligation
(265.96)
(209.18)
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet- Asset / (Liability)
(65.00)
(36.54)
Current portion {refer note 20(i)} 
(57.56)
(30.56)
Non-current portion 
(7.44)
(5.98)
d)
Net defined benefit expense (recognised in the Statement of profit and 
loss for the year)
Current service cost
26.67 
23.88
Interest cost (net)
 1.05 
0.90 
Net defined benefit expense debited to statement of profit and loss 
27.72
24.78
e)
Remeasurement (gain)/ loss recognised in other comprehensive income 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
38.02 
1.86 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments
 (4.88)
3.91 
Return on Plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest expense
 (3.24)
0.66 
Recognised in other comprehensive income
29.90 
6.43 
 f)
Broad categories of plan assets as a percentage of total assets
Insurer managed funds
100%
100%
g)
Principal assumptions used in determining defined benefit obligation
Mortality Table (LIC)
2012-14
2012-14
(Ultimate)
(Ultimate)
Discount rate (per annum)
7.09%
7.24%
Salary Escalation 
9.50%
9.50%
Attrition Rate 
7.00%
7.00%
h) Quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions is as below:
Increase / (decrease) on present value of defined benefits obligations at the end 
of the year
Discount rate
Increase by 1%
(18.91)
 (13.41)
Decrease by 1%
21.39 
 15.30 
Salary increase
Increase by 1%
20.67 
 14.96 
Decrease by 1%
(18.66)
 (13.38)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
253
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Attrition rate
Increase by 1%
 (2.98)
 (1.94)
Decrease by 1%
 3.29 
2.18 
i) 
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation (undiscounted)
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
19.12 
 13.23 
Between 2 and 5 years 
70.63 
 87.31 
More than 5 years
415.69 
283.80 
Total expected payments
505.44 
384.34 
j)	
The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 21.88 years for employees 
(March 31, 2024: 21.80 years).
k)	
The Company expects to contribute ` 55.05 crores (March 31,2024 : ` 28.14 crores) to the plan during the next financial year.
l)	
The estimates of rate of escalation in salary considered in actuarial valuation are after taking into account inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors including supply and demand in the employment market. The above information is as 
certified by the Actuary. 
m)	
Discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian Government securities as at the balance sheet date for the 
estimated term of the obligations.
n)	
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit 
obligation as a result of reasonable changes in an assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period while holding all 
other assumption constant. In practice it is unlikely to occur and change in some of the assumption may be correlated. When 
calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value 
of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been 
applied as when calculating the defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet.
o)	
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the prior 
period.
5.	
Segment Reporting 
	
The segment reporting of the Company has been prepared in accordance with Ind AS-108, “Operating Segment” (specified 
under the section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (the Act) read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rule 
2015 (as amended from time to time) and other relevant provision of the Act). For management purposes, the Company is 
organized into business units based on its products and services and has six reportable segments as follows:
a)
Operating Segments
Switchgears
: Domestic and Industrial switchgears, electrical wiring accessories and capacitors. 
Cables
: Domestic cables and Industrial underground cables. 
Lighting and Fixtures
: Energy Saving Lamps (LED, Fixtures) and luminaries. 
Electrical Consumer Durables
: Fans, Water Heaters, Coolers, and Domestic Appliances 
Lloyd Consumer
: Air Conditioner, Television, Refrigerator and Washing Machine 
Others
: Motors, Pump, Water purifier, Solar, Personal Grooming 
	
b)	
Identification of Segments:
	
	
Operating segments have been identified on the basis of the nature of product / services and have been identified 
as per the quantitative criteria specified in the Ind AS. The Board of Directors monitors the operating results of 
its business segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance 
assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on profit or loss and is measured consistently with profit or 
Havells India Limited
254
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
loss in the financial statements.
	
c)	
Revenue and expenses have been identified to a segment on the basis of relationship to operating activities of the 
segment. Revenue and expenses which relate to enterprise as a whole and are not allocable to a segment on reasonable 
basis have been disclosed as “unallocable”.
	
d)	
Segment assets and segment liabilities represent assets and liabilities in respective segments. Investments, tax related 
assets, borrowings and other assets and liabilities that can not be allocated to a segment on reasonable basis have 
been disclosed as “unallocable”.
	
e)	
There are no customers having revenue exceeding 10% of total revenues
	
f)	
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segments.
(` in crores)
Summary of Segmental Information
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
A. Revenue from operations
Segment Revenue (Sales and other operating revenue)
Switchgears
2,395.34 
 2,244.96 
Cables
7,183.63 
 6,317.57 
Lighting and fixtures
1,653.17 
 1,626.79 
Electrical consumer durables
4,011.46 
 3,481.76 
Lloyd Consumer
5,123.28 
 3,785.22 
Others
1,378.93 
 1,093.60 
21,745.81 
 18,549.90 
Inter Segment Sale
-
 -
Total segment revenue
21,745.81 
 18,549.90 
B. Results
Segment results
Switchgears
539.28 
 596.03 
Cables 
771.50 
 716.05 
Lighting and fixtures
253.68 
 247.41 
Electrical consumer durables
399.39 
 387.15 
Lloyd Consumer
130.75 
(164.39)
Others
 25.19 
 24.55 
Segment profit
2,119.79 
 1,806.80 
Reconciliation of segment operating profit to operating profit
Unallocated:
Other unallocable expenses net off 
 (369.93)
(339.52)
Provision no longer required written back (non-recurring)
-
 39.53 
Other unallocable income
302.47 
 248.73 
Operating Profit
2,052.33 
 1,755.54 
Finance Costs {refer note 29}
 (43.24)
(45.71)
Profit before tax
2,009.09 
 1,709.83 
Income tax expense {refer note 17}
 (520.25)
(436.62)
Profit after tax 
1,488.84 
 1,273.21 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
255
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Summary of Segmental Information
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
C. Reconciliations to amounts reflected in the financial statements
Segment Assets
Switchgears
744.78 
 621.91 
Cables
1,929.50 
 1,568.61 
Lighting and fixtures
639.69 
 660.57 
Electrical consumer durables
1,245.52 
 1,195.05 
Lloyd Consumer
4,467.72 
 4,126.90 
Others
455.55 
 325.06 
Segment operating assets
9,482.76 
 8,498.10 
Reconciliation of segment operating assets to total assets
Cash and bank balance {11(B) and (C)}
3,352.58 
 3,015.42 
Investment {refer note 7(B)}
 10.98 
 20.00 
Investment in Subsidiaries {refer note 7(A)}
 63.05 
 21.18 
Other unallocable assets
865.58 
 865.13 
Total assets
13,774.95 
 12,419.83 
Segment Liabilities
Switchgears
483.22 
 469.64 
Cables
1,183.16 
 1,177.92 
Lighting and fixtures
324.82 
 375.09 
Electrical consumer durables
675.96 
 656.50 
Lloyd Consumer
1,461.01 
 992.80 
Others
276.84 
 229.64 
Segment operating liabilities
4,405.01 
 3,901.59 
Reconciliation of segment operating liabilities to total liabilities
Lease Liabilities{refer note 15(A) and 19(A)}
318.54 
 303.16 
Deferred tax liability {refer note 17(d)}
375.32 
 357.52 
Current tax liabilities (net){refer note 21}
 62.68 
 85.20 
Other unallocable liabilities
282.41 
 333.91 
Total liabilities
5,443.96 
 4,981.38 
Other non-current assets 
Switchgears
 3.08 
6.91 
Cables 
 38.50 
 10.58 
Lighting and fixtures
 0.40 
0.30 
Electrical consumer durables
 3.56 
4.65 
Lloyd Consumer
 30.64 
5.00 
Others
 0.12 
0.30 
 76.30 
 27.74 
Unallocable assets
 20.71 
 118.88 
 97.01 
 146.62 
Capital Expenditure
Switchgears
128.64 
 54.26 
Cables 
170.90 
 251.39 
Lighting and fixtures
 58.05 
 109.40 
Electrical consumer durables
 81.02 
 65.12 
Lloyd Consumer
129.85 
 161.77 
Others
 18.59 
 28.78 
587.05 
 670.72 
Unallocable capital expenditure
211.42 
 41.97 
798.47 
 712.69 
Havells India Limited
256
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Summary of Segmental Information
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation and Amortization Expenses
Switchgears
 59.05 
 52.92 
Cables
 92.81 
 75.30 
Lighting and fixtures
 31.71 
 21.31 
Electrical consumer durables
 69.42 
 60.82 
Lloyd Consumer
128.80 
 115.23 
Others
 16.93 
 12.90 
398.72 
 338.48 
Non-cash expenses (net) other than depreciation
Switchgears
 3.55 
1.11 
Cables
 7.01 
3.42 
Lighting and fixtures
 30.79 
7.28 
Electrical consumer durables
 1.62 
2.17 
Lloyd Consumer
 15.51 
3.11 
Others
(0.44)
0.53 
 58.04 
 17.62 
Fair value loss on financial assets
 9.03 
 -
 67.07 
 17.62 
Note: Non cash expenses other than depreciation includes loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, bad debts and Impairment 
allowance for trade receivables & Investment and other assets considered doubtful
Segment Revenue by location of customers
The following is the distribution of Company's revenue by geographical market, 
regardless of where the goods were produced.
Revenue-Domestic Market
20,945.84 
 17,946.67 
Revenue-Overseas Market
799.97 
 603.23 
21,745.81 
 18,549.90 
Geographical Segment assets 
Within India
13,549.89 
 12,360.06 
Outside India
225.06 
 59.77 
13,774.95 
 12,419.83 
Geographical Non-current assets
Within India
4,842.12 
 4,433.10 
Outside India (refer note below)
 0.03 
 0.03 
4,842.15 
 4,433.13 
Note:- Non Current assets are property, plant and equipment situated outside India
Notes:
(i)	
Finance income and costs on financial assets are not allocated to individual segments as the underlying instruments are managed at 
company level.
(ii)	
Current taxes, deferred taxes and certain financial assets and liabilities are not allocated to those segments as they are also managed at 
company level
(iii)	
Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant and equipment, Capital work in progress and intangible assets
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
257
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
6.	
Related party transactions
	
The related parties as per the terms of Ind AS-24,”Related Party Disclosures”, {under the section 133 of the Companies 
Act 2013 (the Act) read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 (as amended from time to time)}, as 
disclosed below:
(A)
Names of related parties and description of relationship :
Related party where control exists
Subsidiary Companies
Relationship
1	 Havells International Inc. 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary (WOS)
2	 Havells Guangzhou International Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary (WOS)
Step-Down subsidiary companies
Havells Lighting LLC
Step-down subsidiary
Havells HVAC LLC
Step-down subsidiary
(B) Names of other related parties :
(i)
Enterprises having significant influence over company
(iv) Key Management Personnel
QRG Investment and Holding Limited 
Shri Anil Rai Gupta, Chairman and Managing Director 
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Whole-time Director & Group CFO 
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, Wholetime Director 
(ii)
Enterprises in which directors are having significant 
influence
Shri Siddhartha Pandit, Wholetime Director 
QRG Enterprises Limited 
Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, Company Secretary 
QRG Foundation 
Guptajee & Company 
Non Executive Directors
SRF Limited 
Shri Puneet Bhatia
Ayana Renewable Power Private Limited 
Shri T V Mohandas Pai
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani 
(iii) Employee benefit trust for the benefited employees
Shri U K Sinha
Havells India Limited Employees Gratuity Trust 
Shri B P Rao
Havells Employees Welfare Trust 
Shri S S Mundra
Shri Vivek Mehra 
Smt Namrata Kaul
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
(v)
Other Related Parties
Shri Rakesh Mehrotra
- Executive Director
- HKHR Ventures LLP (Partner)
Shri Yogesh Kumar Gupta
- Executive Director
- Eastern Distributors (Partner)
- Gupta Enterprise (Partner)
- YKG Enterprises (Partner)
- OP Gupta and Company (Partner)
- OPG Travels (Partner)
Havells India Limited
258
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
 Year ended
 March 31, 2025 
 Year ended
 March 31, 2024 
(C)
Transactions during the year
(i)
Subscription of investments
Subsidiaries 
Havells International Inc.
41.87 
20.73 
41.87 
20.73 
(ii)
Service Income (refer note (c) below)
Enterprises having significant influence over company
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
0.38 
 0.10 
0.38 
 0.10 
(iii)
Purchase of goods and stores & spares
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
SRF Limited
47.72 
18.95 
47.72 
18.95 
(iv)
Sale of products (refer note (c) below)
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
SRF Limited
0.03 
 3.70 
Ayana Renewable Power Private Limited
- 
 0.22 
Step-down subsidiaries
Havells HVAC LLC
12.15 
- 
Havells Lighting LLC
5.20 
- 
Other Related Parties
OP Gupta and Company
9.96 
 5.12 
27.34 
 9.04 
(v)
Commission on sales (refer note (c) below)
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
Guptajee and Company
23.60 
20.13 
Other Related Parties
 Eastern Distributors 
24.32 
21.78 
 Gupta Enterprise
1.95 
 2.05 
 YKG Enterprises 
2.95 
 2.95 
 HKHR Ventures LLP 
51.78 
43.86 
 104.60 
90.77 
(vi)
Rent / Usage (Utilities) Charges Paid
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
QRG Enterprises Limited 
30.11
28.82
30.11 
28.82 
(vii)
Reimbursement of expenses paid
Other Related Parties
OPG Travels
0.53 
 0.95 
0.53 
 0.95 
(viii)
CSR Contribution
Enterprises having significant influence
QRG Foundation 
7.42 
 9.08 
7.42 
 9.08 
(ix)
Contribution to post employee benefit plan
Havells India Limited Employees Gratuity Trust
28.15
29.08
28.15 
29.08 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
259
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
 Year ended
 March 31, 2025 
 Year ended
 March 31, 2024 
(x)
Managerial remuneration
Key Management Personnel
Salaries, wages, bonus, commission and other benefits
70.21 
59.17 
Contribution towards PF, Family Pension and ESI
2.57 
 2.21 
Post-employment benefits 
2.35 
 1.45 
ESPP expense 
16.73 
11.23 
Non-Executive Directors
Director sitting fees
0.97 
 1.01 
Commission
1.80 
 1.80 
Remuneration to other Related Parties
Salaries, wages, bonus, commission and other benefits
3.00 
 3.00 
97.63 
79.87 
(D)
Balances at the year end 
(i)
Amount Receivable
Step-Down subsidiary company
Havells Lighting LLC
3.28 
- 
3.28
-
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
-
-
SRF Limited
- 
 0.03 
-
0.03
(ii)
Amount Payables
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
Guptajee & Company
6.89 
 5.34 
SRF Limited
7.13 
 2.20 
Other Related Parties
Eastern Distributors 
6.94 
 6.27 
Gupta Enterprise
0.62 
 0.65 
OP Gupta and Company
- 
 0.00 
HKHR Ventures LLP
13.96 
10.31 
OPG Travels
0.03 
 0.10 
35.57
24.87
a)	
The transactions with related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. 
Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and interest free. The settlement for these balances occurs through 
payment. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables. For the year 
ended March 31, 2025, the Company has not recorded any impairment of receivables relating to amounts owed by related 
parties (March 31, 2024: ` Nil). This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of 
the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
b)	
As at March 31, 2025, the Company has not granted any loans to the promoters, directors, KMPs and the related parties (as 
defined under Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person (March 31, 2024: Nil),
c)	
Transactions with related parties are reported gross of Goods and Service Tax.
7.	
Share based payments
	
The Company has in place following employee stock purchase plan approved by shareholders of the Company in compliance 
with Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) regulations, 2021 :
	
(a)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2014 : In accordance with this scheme, 54,274 (March 31, 2024 : 51,376) share 
options of ` 1 each were granted, out of which 53,883 (March 31, 2024: 50,945) share options of ` 1 each were vested 
and allotted on May 31, 2024 (March 31, 2024 : June 08, 2023) to eligible employees at ` 1,644.45 (March 31, 2024: 
Havells India Limited
260
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
` 1,230.20) per share as contributed by these employees. As per the scheme, 50% of the shares are under lock in 
period of 13 months and balance 50% for 2 years. Also as per the scheme, the Company is obliged to pay 50% of the 
contribution made by eligible employees as retention bonus over a period of two years in equal instalments. Accordingly, 
a sum of ` 3.75 crores (March 31, 2024 : ` 2.53 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expense 
(refer note 28).
	
(b)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2015 : In accordance with this scheme, 1,50,000 (March 31, 2024: 1,35,000) 
share options of ` 1 each were granted, vested and allotted on May 31, 2024 (March 31, 2024: June 08, 2023) at ` 
1,644.45 (March 31, 2024: ` 1,230.20) per share to eligible employees. As per the scheme, 78% of the shares are under 
lock in period of 13 months and remaining 22% are under lock in period for 2 years. Accordingly, a sum of ` 24.67 crores 
(March 2024 :` 16.61 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expenses (refer note 28).
	
(c)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2016 : In accordance with the said scheme, 41,529 (March 31, 2024: 34,303) 
share options of ` 1 each were granted to eligible employees with graded vesting in three years starting from 2024. 
During the year, 32,157 equity shares of ` 1 each (March 31, 2024 : 20,627equity shares) were allotted at ` 1,644.45 
(March 31, 2024 : `1,230.20) per share on May 31, 2024 (March 31, 2024 : June 08, 2023). Accordingly, a sum of ` 
6.78 crores (March 31,2024: 3.88 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expense (refer note 
28) and balance outstanding of ` 4.30 crores (March 31, 2024 : 2.81 crores) (refer note 14).
	
(d)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2022 : In accordance with the said scheme, 1,11,231 (March 31, 2024: 65,628) 
share options of ` 1 each were granted to eligible employees with graded vesting in five years starting from 2024. During 
the year, 22,662 equity shares of ` 1 each (March 31, 2024 : 8,680 equity shares) were allotted at ` 1,644.45 (March 
31, 2024 : 1,230.20) per share on October 07, 2024 (March 31, 2024 : November 01, 2023). Accordingly, a sum of ` 
12.68 crores (March 31,2024: 3.98 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expense (refer note 
28) and balance outstanding of ` 12.71 crores (March 31, 2024 : 3.75 crores) (refer note 14).
	
(i)	
Set out below is a summary of options granted and vested during the year under the plan
2024-25
2023-24
Summary of Stock Options
Number of 
Stock Options
Weighted average 
exercise price per 
share option
Number of 
Stock Options
Weighted average 
exercise price per 
share option
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 96,741 
 - 
 34,691 
 - 
Options granted during the year
 3,57,034 
 1,644.45 
 2,86,307 
 1,230.20 
Options vested and exercised during the year
 (2,58,702)
 1,644.45 
 (2,15,252)
 1,230.20 
Options lapsed during the year
 (31,467)
 - 
 (9,005)
 - 
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 1,63,606 
 - 
 96,741 
 - 
	
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of options exercised during the year ended March 31, 2025 was 
` 1,644.45 per share ( March 31, 2024 : ` 1,230.20) per share. For share options outstanding at the end of the year, the fair 
value at grant date of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 was within range of ` 1601.18 to ` 1644.00 per 
share (March 31, 2024 was within range of ` 1,211.83 to ` 1,222.64 per share).
	
(ii)	
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry dates and exercise prices:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
ESPP Scheme
ESPP 2022
ESPP 2016
ESPP 2022
ESPP 2016
Grant date
April 30, 2024
April 30, 2024
May 02, 2023
May 02, 2023
Expiry date
2025-26 to 
2028-29
2025-26 and 
2026-27
2024-25 to 
2027-28
2024-25 and 
2025-26
Outstanding share options
130914
32692
67262
29479
Weighted average remaining contractual life of options 
outstanding at the end of the year
4 years
2 year
4 years
2 year
	
The fair value at grant date of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 was within range of ` 1601.18 to 
` 1644.00 per share (March 31, 2024 was within range of ` 1,211.83 to ` 1,222.64 per share). The fair value at the grant date 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
261
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
is determined using Black Scholes valuation model which takes into account the exercise price, the terms of the options, the 
share price at grant date and expected price volatility of the underlying shares, the expected dividend yield and the risk free 
interest rate for the term of the option.
	
(iii)	 The Model inputs for options granted (ESPP 2016) :
(a)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Expected Price volatility of the company's share
23.73% to 30.97%
9.87% to 27.31%
Expected Dividend Yield
0.66%
0.59%
Share price at the grant date
1644.45
1230.20
Risk free interest rate
7.16%
7.12%
The Model inputs for options granted (ESPP 2022) :
(b)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Expected Price volatility of the company's share
29.27% to 30.97%
9.87% to 31.53%
Expected Dividend Yield
0.66%
0.59%
Share price at the grant date
1644.45
1230.20
Risk free interest rate
7.16%
7.12%
	
(iv)	 The expected price volatility is based on the historical volatility (based on remaining life of the options), adjusted for any 
expected change to future volatility due to publically available information.
	
(v)	
Expense arising from shared based payment transactions
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2014
3.75
2.53
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2015
24.67
16.61
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2016
6.78
3.88
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2022
12.68
3.98
Total expense recognised in the statement of profit and loss account as a 
part of employee benefit expense
47.88
27.00
8.	
Corporate Social Responsibility
	
As per provisions of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has to incur at least 2% of average net profits of 
the preceding three financial years towards Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”). Accordingly, a CSR committee has been 
formed for carrying out CSR activities as per the Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013. Details are as under:
Details of CSR Expenditure:
Particulars
Year ended
 March 31, 2025
Year ended
 March 31, 2024
Amount required to be spent as per section 135 of the Act
 32.28 
30.21
Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year
 32.28 
30.21
Amount spent by the company on
i)	
Construction/ acquisition of assets
 17.60 
 14.72 
ii)	
On purpose other than (i) above
	
Promotion of education, eradicating hunger and sanitation & Hygiene
 9.82 
 10.36 
Havells India Limited
262
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Particulars
Year ended
 March 31, 2025
Year ended
 March 31, 2024
	
Skill Development
 1.69 
 1.40 
	
Environmental sustainability
 3.84 
 3.40 
	
Others
 - 
 0.05 
Total CSR Expense
 32.95 
 29.93 
Add : Brought forward from previous year
 0.65 
 0.93 
Less: Excess spent during the year to be carried forward to next year
 1.32 
 0.65 
Amount recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
 32.28 
 30.21 
Details of related party transactions*
 7.42 
 9.08 
* Provided grant to QRG Foundation for Promotion of education, eradicating hunger and sanitation & Hygiene activities {refer note 33(6)}
Details of ongoing CSR projects under Section 135(6) of the Companies Act 2013
Year
Opening Balance
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent during the year
Closing Balance
With the 
Company
In Separate 
CSR Unspent 
A/c
From 
Company’s 
bank account
From Separate 
CSR Unspent 
account
With the 
Company
In Separate 
CSR Unspent 
account
FY2023-24
-
 4.00 
-
-
 4.00 
-
-
FY2024-25
-
 - 
 -
-
 - 
 -
 - 
Note: The company had earned an interest of ` Nil (` 0.16 crores in March 2024) on the funds in CSR unspent bank account during the year.
Further, the company has made an additional payment of ` Nil (March 31, 2024: ` 0.79 crores) to Ashoka University, on account of interest earned 
(net of taxes) on amount deposited in separate CSR Bank account (including ` Nil (March 31, 2024 :` 0.16 crores) interest earned during the year). 
	
Details of CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Companies Act 2013 in respect of unspent amount other than 
ongoing projects
Year
Opening Balance 
unspent
Amount deposited in Specified 
Fund of Schedule VII of the 
Act within 6 months
Amount required to 
be spent during 
the year
Amount spent 
during the year
Closing 
Balance 
unspent
FY2023-24
-
 - 
 30.21 
 30.21 
-
FY2024-25
-
 - 
 32.28 
 32.28 
-
	
Details of excess CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Companies Act 2013
Year
Opening balance 
excess spent
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent 
during the year
Closing balance 
excess spent
FY2023-24
 0.93 
30.21
29.93
0.65
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
263
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
FY2024-25
 0.65 
32.28
32.95
1.32
9.	
Fair value measurements
	
Set out below, is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Company’s financial instruments:
(` in crores)
Carrying Value
Fair Value
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Financial instruments by category
Financial assets valued at amortized cost
Cash and bank balances (Current)
 3,352.58 
 3,015.42 
 3,352.58 
 3,015.42 
Trade Receivables
 1,253.99 
 1,157.45 
 1,253.99 
 1,157.45 
Other Financial assets (Current)
 5.65 
 20.99 
 5.65 
 20.99 
Other Financial assets (Non-current)
 36.14 
 32.86 
 36.14 
 32.86 
 4,648.36 
 4,226.72 
 4,648.36
 4,226.72 
Financial Liabilities valued at amortized cost
Trade Payables
 3,040.07 
 2,690.70 
 3,040.07 
 2,690.70 
Lease Liability (current and non current)
 318.54 
 303.16 
 318.54 
 303.16 
Other financial liabilities (non-current)
 2.26 
 4.05 
 2.26 
 4.05 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 865.34 
 787.68 
 865.34 
 787.68 
 4,226.21 
 3,785.59 
 4,226.21
 3,785.59 
The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, other current financial assets and 
other current financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
The fair value of the other financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in 
a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions 
were used to estimate the fair values:
1)	
The fair value of unquoted instruments, other non-current financial assets and non-current financial liabilities is estimated by 
discounting future cash flows (DCF model) using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining 
maturities. The valuation requires management to use unobservable inputs in the model, of which the significant unobservable 
inputs are disclosed in the tables below. Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those 
significant unobservable inputs and determines their impact on the total fair value.
2)	
The fair values of the Company’s interest-bearing borrowings are determined by using DCF method using discount rate that 
reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The own non-performance risk as at March 31, 2025 
was assessed to be insignificant.
3)	
Long-term receivables/payables are evaluated by the Company based on parameters such as interest rates, risk factors, 
individual creditworthiness of the counterparty and the risk characteristics of the financed project. Based on this evaluation, 
allowances are taken into account for the expected credit losses of these receivables. 
4)	
Fair value hierarchy
	
The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation 
technique:
	
Level 1: The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted (unadjusted) market prices at the 
end of the reporting period for identical assets or liabilities
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques 
which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant 
inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. 
This is the case for unlisted equity securities, contingent consideration and indemnification asset included in level 3.
	
There are no transfers among levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.
Havells India Limited
264
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
This section explains the judgement and estimates made in determining the fair value of financial assets that are:
	
a)	
Recognised and measured at Fair value
	
b)	
Measured at amortised cost and for which fair value is disclosed in financial statements
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy for assets as on March 31, 2025
Carrying Value
Fair Value
March 31, 2025
Level 1 
Level 2
Level 3
Assets carried at amortized cost for which fair value are disclosed
Other Financial assets (Non-current)
 36.14 
 - 
 - 
 36.14 
Other Financial assets (Current)
 5.65 
 - 
 - 
 5.65 
Assets carried at fair value though profit and loss
Investment in preference shares
 10.98 
 - 
 10.98 
 - 
Liabilities carried at amortized cost for which fair value are disclosed
Lease Liability (current and non current)
 318.54 
 - 
 - 
 318.54 
Other financial liabilities (non-current)
 2.26 
 - 
 - 
 2.26 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 865.34 
 - 
 - 
 865.34 
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy for assets as on March 31, 2024
Carrying Value
Fair Value
March 31, 2024
Level 1 
Level 2
Level 3
Assets carried at amortized cost for which fair value 
are disclosed
Other Financial assets (non-current)
 32.86 
 - 
 - 
 32.86 
Other Financial assets (current)
 20.99 
 - 
 - 
 20.99 
Assets carried at fair value though profit and loss
Investment in preference shares
 20.00 
 - 
 20.00 
 - 
Liabilities carried at amortized cost for which fair 
value are disclosed
Lease Liability (current and non current)
 303.16 
 - 
 - 
 303.16 
Other financial liabilities (non-current)
 4.05 
 - 
 - 
 4.05 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 787.68 
 - 
 - 
 787.68 
10.	 Financial risk management objectives and policies
	
The Company’s principal financial liabilities comprise liabilities, trade and other payables. The main purpose of these financial 
liabilities is to finance the Company’s operations. The Company’s principal financial assets include trade and other receivables, 
and cash and cash equivalents that are derived directly from its operations. 
	
The Company’s financial risk management is an integral part of how to plan and execute its business strategies. The Company 
is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
	
The Company is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Company’s senior management oversees the 
management of these risks. The senior professionals working to manage the financial risks and the appropriate financial 
risk governance framework for the Company are accountable to the Board of Directors and Audit Committee. This process 
provides assurance to Company’s senior management that the Company’s financial risk-taking activities are governed 
by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risk are identified, measured and managed in accordance with 
Company policies and Company risk objective. 
	
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarized as below:
	
(a)	 Market Risk
	
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market prices. Market prices comprises three types of risk: currency rate risk, interest rate risk and other price risks, such 
as equity price risk and commodity price risk. Financial instruments affected by market risks include deposits, investments 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
265
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
, and foreign currency receivables and payables. The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as 
at reporting date. The analysis exclude the impact of movements in market variables on: the carrying values of gratuity and 
other post-retirement obligations; provisions; and the non-financial assets and liabilities. The sensitivity of the relevant Profit 
and Loss item and equity is the effect of the assumed changes in the respective market risks. This is based on the financial 
assets and financial liabilities held as of March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024
	
(i)	
Foreign Currency Risk
	
	
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates 
relates primarily to the Company’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in foreign currency). 
Foreign currency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by purchasing of goods from the respective countries. The 
Company evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from foreign currency transactions and follows established risk 
management policies.
	
	
Foreign currency risk sensitivity
	
	
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD,EUR,CNY and other currencies 
including JPY, KES, NPR, CHF, LKR, AED and GBP exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. The impact 
on the Company profit before tax and equity is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities. Foreign 
currency exposures recognised by the Company that have not been hedged by a derivative instrument or otherwise are 
as under:
Gain/ (loss)
March 31, 2025
Impact on profit before tax and equity
Currency 
Foreign Currency 
 Indian Rupees 
5% increase
5% decrease
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
United States Dollar 
 $  (2.61)
 (223.60)
 (11.18)
11.18
EURO 
 €  0.22
 20.45
 1.02
(1.02)
Chinese RMB\CNY 
 CNY  (5.90)
 (69.69)
 (3.48)
3.48
Other currencies 
(0.03)
 0.38
 0.02
(0.02)
March 31, 2024
Impact on profit before tax and equity
Currency 
 Foreign Currency 
 Indian Rupees 
5% increase
5% decrease
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
United States Dollar 
 $  (3.40)
 (283.09)
 (14.15)
14.15
EURO 
 €  (0.07)
 (6.29)
 (0.31)
0.31
Chinese RMB\CNY 
 CNY  (5.78)
 (66.57)
 (3.33)
3.33
Other currencies 
(0.40)
 (0.34)
 (0.02)
0.02
Note:
Figures in bracket represents payables
	
(ii)	
Interest Rate Risk
	
	
Interest rate is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes 
in market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the 
Company’s long term debt obligation at floating interest rates. The Company does not have any outstanding borrowings 
as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
	
(iii)	 Commodity Price Risk
	
	
The Company is affected by the price volatility of certain commodities. Its operating activities require the ongoing 
manufacture of industrial and domestic cable and other electronic items and therefore require a continuous supply of 
copper and aluminium being the major input used in the manufacturing. To mitigate the risk of supply and price fluctuations, 
Domestic and overseas sources are bench-marked to Optimize the allocation of business share among various sources. 
The Company’s Board of Directors has developed and enacted a risk management strategy regarding commodity price 
risk and its mitigation. The Company mitigated the risk of price volatility by entering Long Term & Short term contracts for 
the Purchase of these commodities basis estimated annual requirements.
	
(b)	 Credit Risk
	
	
Credit Risk is the risk that the counter party will not meet its obligation under a financial instrument or customer contract, 
leading to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and 
from its financing activities, including deposits with banks, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments.
Havells India Limited
266
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
(i)	
Trade Receivables and Contract Assets
	
	
Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures and 
control relating to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an extensive 
credit rating scorecard and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment. Outstanding customer 
receivables are regularly monitored and any shipments to major customers are generally covered by Trade Receivable 
buyout facility without recourse, letters of credit and other forms of security. 
	
	
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on trade receivables by lifetime expected credit loss method 
based on provision matrix. The Company does not hold collateral as security. The Company evaluates the concentration 
of risk with respect to trade receivables and contract assets as low, as its customers are located in several jurisdictions 
and industries and operate in largely independent markets.
	
	
The group assigns the following internal credit ratings to each class of financial assets based on the assumptions, 
inputs and factors specific to the class of the financial assets. The group provides for expected credit loss based on the 
following:
Internal 
Rating
Category
Description of category 
Basis for recognition 
of expected credit loss 
provision 
Basis for recognition of 
expected credit loss 
Trade receivables and 
contract assets 
Loans & Deposits
VL 1 
High quality assets, 
negligible credit risk 
Assets where the counterparty has strong 
capacity to meet the obligations and where the 
risk of default is negligible or nil 
Lifetime expected credit 
losses (simplified approach) 
12 months expected 
credit losses
VL 2
Quality assets, low 
credit risk 
Assets where there is low risk of default and 
where the counterparty has sufficient capacity 
to meet the obligations and where there has 
been low frequency of defaults in the past 
VL 3
Doubtful assets, 
credit-impaired 
Assets where there is high risk of default and 
there is no reasonable expectation of recovery,the 
group continues to engage in enforcement 
activity to attempt to recover the receivable due. 
Where recoveries are made, these are recognised 
in profit or loss.
100 % provision is 
considered for doubtful 
assets, credit impaired
100 % provision 
is considered for 
doubtful assets, credit 
impaired
(I)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2025
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues 
 Not 
due 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 years 
 2 - 3 
years 
More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
Gross carrying amount – trade 
receivables 
 5.24  673.20 
 525.66 
 31.20 
 25.39 
 26.76 
 72.57 
 1,360.02 
(ii)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
– 
contract assets 
 - 
 12.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.34 
(iii)
Expected loss rate 
 - 
0.00%
1.31%
16.86%
20.32%
60.42%
100.00%
7.73%
(iv) Expected credit losses– trade 
receivables 
 - 
 - 
 6.87 
 5.26 
 5.16 
 16.17 
 72.57 
 106.03 
(v)
Expected credit losses– contract 
assets 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi) Carrying 
amount 
of 
trade 
receivables (net of impairment) 
 5.24  673.20 
 518.78 
 25.94 
 20.24 
 10.59 
 - 
 1,253.99 
Carrying amount of contract 
assets (net of impairment) 
 - 
 12.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.34
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
267
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(II)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues 
Not 
due 
Less than 
6 months 
6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
More than 
3 years 
Total 
(i)
Gross carrying amount – trade 
receivables 
 - 641.89 
 421.38 
 31.70  51.52 
 35.00 
 72.50  1,253.99 
(ii)
Gross carrying amount – contract assets 
 -  39.85 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 39.85 
(iii)
Expected loss rate 
 - 
0.11%
0.60%
7.05% 19.96%
54.89%
85.93%
7.52%
(iv)
Expected 
credit 
losses– 
trade 
receivables 
 - 
 0.00 
 2.51 
 2.24  10.28 
 19.21 
 62.30 
 96.54 
(v)
Expected credit losses– contract assets 
 - 
 0.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.76 
(vi)
Carrying amount of trade receivables 
(net of impairment) 
 - 641.89 
 418.87 
 29.46  41.24 
 15.79 
 10.20  1,157.45 
Carrying 
amount 
of 
contract 
assets (net of impairment)
 -  39.09 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 39.09 
(ii)	
Financial instruments and cash deposits
	
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s treasury department in 
accordance with the Company’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made in bank deposits and other risk free securities. 
The limits are set to minimize the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty’s potential 
failure to make payments. 
	
The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at March 31, 2025 is the carrying 
amounts. The Company’s maximum exposure relating to financial instrument is noted in liquidity table below. 
	
Trade Receivables and other financial assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery, such as 
debtor failing to engage in the repayment plan with the Company.
Financial assets for which allowance is measured using 12 months Expected Credit Loss Method (ECL)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash and cash equivalents (Current)
781.72
 243.35 
Bank balances other than above (Current)
2570.86
 2,772.07 
Others Non Current financial assets
 36.14 
 32.86 
Others Current financial assets
 5.65 
 20.99 
 3,394.37 
 3,069.27 
Financial assets for which allowance is measured using Life time Expected 
Credit Loss Method (ECL)
Trade Receivables
 1,253.99 
 1,157.45 
Contract Assets
 12.34 
 39.09 
 1,266.33 
 1,196.54 
Balances with banks is subject to low credit risks due to good credit ratings assigned to these banks
The ageing analysis of trade receivables has been considered from the date the invoice falls due
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Particulars
Trade Receivables
Unbilled dues
5.24
-
Not past due 
 673.20 
 641.89 
0 to 180 days due past due date
 518.78 
 418.87 
More than 180 days past due date
 56.77 
 96.69 
Total Trade Receivables 
 1,253.99 
 1,157.45 
Havells India Limited
268
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
The following table summarizes the change in loss allowance measured 
using the life time expected credit loss model:
As at the beginning of year
 97.30 
 87.66 
Addition during the year
 8.73 
 17.62 
Utilization during the year
-
 (7.99)
As at the end of year
 106.03 
 97.30 
	
(c)	
Liquidity risk
	
	
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Company will not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at 
reasonable price. The Company’s objective is to at all times maintain optimum levels of liquidity to meet its cash and 
liquidity requirements. The Company closely monitors its liquidity position and deploys a robust cash management 
system. It maintains adequate source of financing through the use of short term bank deposits, short term loans, short 
term commercial papers and cash credit facility. Processes and policies related to such risks are overseen by senior 
management. Management monitors the Company’s liquidity position through rolling forecasts on the basis of expected 
cash flows. The Company assessed the concentration of risk with respect to its debt and concluded it to be low.
	
	
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
	
	
The table below provides the details regarding the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting 
date based on contractual undiscounted payments.
As at March 31, 2025
 Less than 1 year 
 1 to 5 years  More than 5 years 
 Total 
Other non current financial liabilities
 - 
 2.26 
 - 
 2.26 
Trade payables
 3,040.07 
 - 
 - 
 3,040.07 
Lease Liability (undiscounted)
 102.22 
 244.64 
 118.30 
 465.16 
Other current financial liabilities
 865.34 
 - 
 - 
 865.34 
As at March 31, 2024
 Less than 1 year 
 1 to 5 years  More than 5 years 
 Total 
Other non current financial liabilities
 - 
 4.05 
 - 
 4.05 
Trade payables
 2,690.70 
 - 
 - 
 2,690.70 
Lease Liability (undiscounted)
 93.36 
 200.73 
 93.12 
 387.21 
Other current financial liabilities
 787.68 
 - 
 - 
 787.68 
11.	 Capital Management
	
For the purpose of Company’s capital management, Capital includes equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company 
and all other equity reserves. The primary objective of the Company’s capital management is to safeguard its ability to continue 
as going concern and to ensure that it maintains an efficient capital structure and maximize shareholder value. The Company 
manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the requirements of the 
financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders 
or issue new shares. The Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. No changes were made in the 
objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
(` in crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Cash and cash equivalents {refer note 11(C)}
 781.72 
 243.35 
Loans and borrowings
 - 
 - 
Net Debt
 - 
 - 
Equity / Net Worth
 8,330.99 
 7,438.45 
Total Capital
 8,330.99 
 7,438.45 
Gearing ratio (Net Debt/Capital and Net Debt)
NA*
NA*
* This ratio is not relevant for both year as there are no Loans and Borrowings.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
269
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
12.	 Earnings per share
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
a)
Basic Earnings per share
Numerator for earnings per share
Profit after taxation 
 (` in crores) 
1488.84
1273.21
Denominator for earnings per share
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year
 (Numbers) 
 62,68,90,488 
 62,66,46,898 
Earnings per share-Basic (one equity share of ` 1/- each)
 ` 
 23.75 
 20.32 
b)
Diluted Earnings per share
Numerator for earnings per share
Profit after taxation
 (` in crores) 
1488.84
1273.21
Denominator for earnings per share
Weighted average number of equity shares for basic 
earning per share
 (Numbers) 
 62,68,90,488 
 62,66,46,898 
Effect of dilution
Share options
 (Numbers) 
 1,63,382 
 72,890 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year adjusted for the effect of dilution 
 (Numbers) 
 62,70,53,870 
 62,67,19,788 
Earnings per share- Diluted (one equity share of ` 1/- each)
 ` 
23.74
20.32
13.	 Dividend Paid and Proposed
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Dividend declared and paid during the year:
Final Dividend of ` 6.00 per share for FY 2023-24 (` 4.50 per share for FY 2022-23)
 376.15 
 282.01 
Interim dividend of ` 4.00 per share for FY 2024-25 (` 3.00 per share for FY 2023-24)
 250.78 
 188.00 
 626.93 
 470.01 
Proposed Dividends on equity shares:
Final Dividend recommended by the board of directors for the year ended March 31, 
2025 ` 6 per share of Re 1 each (March 31, 2024: ` 6.00 per share of Re 1 each) 
subject to approval of shareholders in the ensuing annual general meeting.
 376.17 
 376.01 
376.17
 376.01 
Note: Proposed dividends on equity shares are subject to approval at the annual general meeting and are not recognised as liability as at reporting date.
14.	 Disclosure required under Section 186 (4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
Particulars of Investments made:
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Sl. 
No
Name of the Investee
Investment made
Outstanding 
Balance
Investment made
Outstanding 
Balance
1
Havells International Inc.
 41.87 
 62.60 
 20.73 
 20.73 
2
Havells Guangzhou International 
Limited
 - 
 0.45 
 - 
 0.45 
3
Singularity Furniture Pvt. Ltd*
 - 
 10.98 
 - 
 20.00 
* Fair value (gain)/loss on financial assets made during the year of ` 9.03 Crores ( March 31, 2024: Nil)
Havells India Limited
270
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
15.	 Fire Incident in Neemrana Plant
	
During the current year, the insurance company has fully settled the claim towards loss of property, plant and equipment 
incurred during the fire incident in Neemrana location in July, 2022. As at March 31, 2024, the claim recoverable was 
` 15.79 crores against which the Company has received ` 32 .84 crores, being reinstatement value of property, plant 
and equipment, from the insurance company. Accordingly, ` 17.05 crores has been recognised as Other Income (refer 
note 24).
16.	 The Company has not been declared as a Wilful Defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority.
17.	 Analytical ratio FY 2024-25
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator 
As at 
March 31, 2025 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
Change 
 Explanation for 
change in the ratio 
by more than 25% 
as compared to 
the previous year 
(a) Current Ratio 
(times) = Current 
assets/ Current 
liabilities
March 31, 2025: 
8794.84 
March 31, 2025: 
4760.55 
1.85
1.84
0.40%
 Not Applicable 
March 31, 2024: 
7863.76 
March 31, 2024: 
4278.53 
(b) Debt-Equity 
Ratio (times) = 
Total Borrowings/ 
Shareholder's equity*
March 31, 2025: 0 
March 31, 2025: 
8330.99 
0.00
0.00
-
 Not Applicable  
(Nil Borrowing) 
March 31, 2024: 0 
March 31, 2024: 
7438.45 
(c) Debt Service 
Coverage Ratio = 
Earnings available for 
debt service/ Debt 
service 
March 31, 2025: 
1995.38 
March 31, 2025: 
103.43 
19.29
19.18
0.57%
 Not Applicable 
March 31, 2024: 
1626.05 
March 31, 2024: 
84.77 
(d) Return on Equity 
Ratio % = Net Profits 
after taxes/ Average 
shareholder's equity
March 31, 2025: 
1488.84 
March 31, 2025: 
7884.72 
18.88%
18.12%
0.76%
 Not Applicable 
March 31, 2024: 
1273.21 
March 31, 2024: 
7026.46 
(e) Inventory 
turnover ratio (times) 
= Revenue from 
operations/ Average 
inventory
March 31, 2025: 
21717.65 
March 31, 2025: 
3707.95 
5.86
5.21
12.50%
 Not Applicable 
March 31, 2024: 
18536.4 
March 31, 2024: 
3558.49 
(f) Trade receivables 
turnover ratio (times) 
= Net revenue from 
operations/ Average 
trade receivables
March 31, 2025: 
21717.65
March 31, 2025: 
1205.72 
18.01
17.40
3.49%
 Not Applicable 
March 31, 2024: 
18536.4 
March 31, 2024: 
1065.18 
(g) Trade payables 
turnover ratio (times) 
= Net purchases/ 
Average trade 
payables
March 31, 2025: 
18313.96 
March 31, 2025: 
2865.39 
6.39
5.57
14.72%
 Not Applicable 
March 31, 2024: 
14856.53 
March 31, 2024: 
2666.62 
(h) Net capital 
turnover ratio (times) 
= Revenue from 
operations/ Working 
capital
March 31, 2025: 
21717.65 
March 31, 2025: 
4034.29 
5.38
5.17
4.06%
 Not Applicable 
March 31, 2024: 
18536.4 
March 31, 2024: 
3585.23 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
271
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator 
As at 
March 31, 2025 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
Change 
 Explanation for 
change in the ratio 
by more than 25% 
as compared to 
the previous year 
(i) Net profit ratio % = 
Net profit/ Revenue 
from operations
March 31, 2025: 
1488.84 
March 31, 2025: 
21717.65 
6.86%
6.87%
(0.01)%
 Not Applicable 
March 31, 2024: 
1273.21 
March 31, 2024: 
18536.4 
(j) Return on capital 
employed % = EBIT/ 
Capital employed 
{refer note ii}
March 31, 2025: 
1749.86 
March 31, 2025: 
8706.31 
20.10%
19.33%
0.77%
 Not Applicable 
March 31, 2024: 
1506.81 
March 31, 2024: 
7795.97 
(k) Return on 
investment % =  
EBIT/ Average total 
assets
March 31, 2025: 
1749.86 
March 31, 2025: 
13097.39 
13.36%
12.79%
0.57%
 Not Applicable 
March 31, 2024: 
1506.81 
March 31, 2024: 
11781.52 
Analytical ratio FY 2023-2024
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
Change
 Explanation for change 
in the ratio by more than 
25% as compared to the 
previous year 
(a) Current Ratio 
(times) = Current 
assets/ Current 
liabilities
March 31, 2024: 
7863.76
March 31, 2024: 
4278.53
1.84
1.84
0.03%
Not Applicable
(March 31, 
2023: 7041.25)
(March 31, 2023: 
3832.27)
(b) Debt-Equity 
Ratio (times) = 
Total Borrowings/ 
Shareholder's equity*
March 31, 2024: 
NA
March 31, 2024: 
7438.45
0.00
0.00
-
Not Applicable 
(March 31, 
2023: NA)
(March 31, 2023: 
6614.48)
(c) Debt Service 
Coverage Ratio = 
Earnings available 
for debt service/ 
Debt service 
March 31, 2024: 
1626.05
March 31, 2024: 
84.77
19.18
3.00
540.05%
Full debt repaid in 
previous year
(March 31, 
2023: 1388.44)
(March 31, 2023: 
463.29)
(d) Return on Equity 
Ratio % = Net Profits 
after taxes/ Average 
shareholder's equity
March 31, 2024: 
1273.21
March 31, 2024: 
7026.47
18.12%
17.06%
1.06%
Not Applicable
(March 31, 
2023: 1074.95)
(March 31, 2023: 
6301.56)
(e) Inventory turnover 
ratio (times) = Revenue 
from operations/ 
Average inventory
March 31, 2024: 
18536.40
March 31, 2024: 
3558.50
5.21
5.05
3.15%
Not Applicable
(March 31, 
2023: 16858.25)
(March 31, 2023: 
3338.28)
(f) Trade receivables 
turnover ratio (times) 
= Net revenue from 
operations/ Average 
trade receivables
March 31, 2024: 
18536.40
March 31, 2024: 
1065.18
17.40
19.37
-10.17%
Not Applicable 
(March 31, 
2023: 16858.25)
(March 31, 2023: 
870.21)
(g) Trade payables 
turnover ratio (times) 
= Net purchases/ 
Average trade payables
March 31, 2024: 
14856.53
March 31, 2024: 
2666.62
5.57
5.82
-4.35%
 Not Applicable 
(March 31, 
2023: 14625.01)
(March 31, 2023: 
2510.98)
Havells India Limited
272
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
Change
 Explanation for change 
in the ratio by more than 
25% as compared to the 
previous year 
(h) Net capital 
turnover ratio (times) 
= Revenue from 
operations/ Working 
capital
March 31, 2024: 
18536.40
March 31, 2024: 
3585.23
5.17
5.25
(1.58)%
 Not Applicable 
(March 31, 
2023: 16858.25)
(March 31, 2023: 
3208.98)
(i) Net profit ratio % = 
Net profit/ Revenue 
from operations
March 31, 2024: 
1273.21
March 31, 2024: 
18536.40
6.87%
6.38%
0.49%
 Not Applicable
(March 31, 
2023: 1074.95)
(March 31, 2023: 
16858.25)
(j) Return on capital 
employed % = EBIT/ 
Capital employed 
{refer note ii}
March 31, 2024: 
1506.81
March 31, 2024: 
7795.97
19.33%
18.73%
0.59%
 Not Applicable
(March 31, 
2023: 1306.85)
(March 31, 2023: 
6975.99)
(k) Return on 
investment % = EBIT/ 
Average total assets
March 31, 2024: 
1506.81
March 31, 2024: 
11781.51
12.79%
12.07%
0.72%
 Not Applicable
(March 31, 
2023: 1306.85)
(March 31, 2023: 
10824.18)
Note:
(i) Debt service = Interest & Lease Payments + Principal Repayments
(ii) Capital Employed = Tangible Net Worth + Total Borrowings + Deferred Tax Liability
(iii) Tangible Net worth is computed as Total Assets - Total Liabilities.
* Borrowings does not includes Lease liabilities
18.	 Struck off Companies: Details of relationship with Companies struck off under Section 248 of Companies Act, 2013 or 
Section 560 of the Companies Act, 1956:
Name of the struck off Company
 Nature of 
transaction 
with struck off 
Company 
Balance 
outstanding as at 
March 31, 2025 
(Nos.)
Balance 
outstanding as at 
March 31, 2024 
(Nos.)
 Relation with 
struck off 
Company 
Manilal Patel Private Limited 
(CIN: U17110MH1947PTC005911)
 Shares held by 
struck off company 
35 number of shares 
of ` 1/- each
35 number of shares 
of ` 1/- each
 Shareholder 
Multitech System Industrial Automation Private 
Limited (CIN: U28910TN2014PTC097924)
 Purchase 
Nil
` 0.01 crore
 Vendor 
Naveli Decor Pvt. Ltd. 
(CIN: U52609UP2017PTC099523)
 Sales 
Nil
` 0.00 crore
 Customer 
Apostle Solutions Private Limited 
(CIN: U74110UP2007PTC032990)
 Sales 
Nil
` 0.00 crore
 Customer 
Samadhan Srbh Opc Private Limited 
(CIN: U74999UP2020OPC126709)
 Sales 
Nil
` 0.00 crore
 Customer 
Extreme Automation Pvt Ltd 
(CIN: U29220PN2010PTC135444)
 Sales 
` 0.08 crore
` 0.08 crore
 Customer 
Ramesh Sales Corporation Pvt.Ltd. 
(CIN: U52390DL2014PTC266899)
 Sales 
` 0.21 crore
` 0.21 crore
 Customer 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
273
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
19.	 Additional regulatory information required by Schedule III of Companies Act, 2013 
	
(i)	
Details of Benami property: No proceedings have been initiated or are pending against the Company for holding any 
Benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and the rules made thereunder.
	
(ii)	
Utilisation of borrowed funds and share premium: 
	
	
The Company, other than mentioned below, has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or 
entity(ies), including foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
	
a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
	
As at March 31, 2025
Name of Entity / Intermediary 
Amount of 
Investment 
during the year
%age 
Sharholding
Investment made 
by
 Relationship with 
the Company 
Havells International Inc., USA, (Investment 
dated 2nd Aug. 2024, File No. 2512890)
USD 5,000,000
100%
Havells India Limited
 Wholly owned 
subsidiary 
Havells HVAC LLC, USA (Investment dated 
26th and March 31, 2025, File No. 2743679)
USD 1,200,000
80%
Havells International 
Inc., USA
 Step Down 
subsidiary 
Havells Lighting LLC, USA (Investment dated 
07th August. 2024, File No. 3295972)
USD 3,437,500
68.75%
Havells International 
Inc., USA
 Step Down 
subsidiary 
	
As at March 31, 2024
Name of Entity / Intermediary 
Amount of 
Investment 
during the year
%age 
Sharholding
Investment made 
by
 Relationship with 
the Company 
Havells International Inc., USA, (Investment 
dated 29th Feb. 2024, File No. 2512890) 
USD 2,500,000
100%
Havells India Limited
 Wholly owned 
subsidiary 
Havells HVAC LLC, USA (Investment dated 
21st March 2024, File No. 2743679) 
USD 1,600,000
100%
Havells International 
Inc., USA
 Step Down 
subsidiary 
	
	
The relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and The Companies Act 2013 
have been complied with for such transactions and the transactions are not violative of the Prevention of Money-
Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003).
	
	
The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with 
the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
	
	
a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
	
(iii)	
Compliance with number of layers of companies: The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed 
under the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Restriction on number of layers) Rules, 2017.
	
(iv)	 Compliance with approved scheme(s) of arrangements: The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement 
which has an accounting impact in current or previous financial year.
	
(v)	
Undisclosed income: There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in the 
tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books of account.
	
(vi)	 Details of crypto currency or virtual currency: The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual 
currency during the current or previous year.
	
(vii)	 The company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans, repayable on demand.
Havells India Limited
274
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
20.	 The figures have been rounded off to the nearest crore of rupees upto two decimal places. The figure 0.00 wherever stated 
represents value less than ` 50,000/-
21.	 The Company has used accounting software for maintaining its books of account which have a feature of recording audit 
trail(edit log) facility that have operated throughout the financial year for all relevant transactions except: (a) that the audit trail 
for modification, if any, made by users having debug access was enabled from June 17, 2024; and (b) that the audit trail at 
database level did not operate during the period December 31, 2024 to February 28, 2025. This happened because of an 
inadvertent step at service provider’s end to avoid a system outage. However as confirmed by the service provider, there was 
no changes made at database level during this period. Audit trail at database level, where available, contains modified values. 
There was no instance of audit trail feature being tampered with for the period the audit trail was enabled. The audit trail, 
where enabled, has been preserved as per the statutory requirements. 
22.	 Event after Balance sheet date
	
The company has signed a binding term sheet to invest ` 600 crore in Goldi Solar Private Limited (Goldi) to accelerate 
growth in renewable sector. Goldi is engaged mainly in the business of manufacturing and supply of solar modules 
and invertors. The company already has presence in solar ecosystem through sale of modules, invertors, solar cables 
and DC switchgears. This is a strategic minority investment to ensure consistent supply of critical solar components 
like solar modules and cells. The company is expected to have a stake ranging between 8.90%- 9.24% post 
investment. Transaction is expected to close by June 30, 2025, subject to fulfilment of certain Conditions Precedent. 
This transaction has no impact on these financials.
23.	 Note No.1 to 33 form integral part of the Standalone Balance Sheet and Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 22, 2025	
Date: April 22, 2025	
Manish Kaushik
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Accounts
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
275
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Havells India Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying consolidated 
financial statements of Havells India Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries 
(Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred 
to as “the Group”), (refer Note 32(1) to the attached 
consolidated financial statements), which comprise the 
consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, and 
the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income), 
the 
consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and 
notes to the consolidated financial statements, including 
material accounting policy information and other 
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the 
consolidated financial statements”).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in 
the manner so required and give a true and fair view 
in conformity with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of 
the Group, as at March 31, 2025, and consolidated total 
comprehensive income (comprising of profit and other 
comprehensive income), consolidated changes in equity 
and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the 
Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements” section of our 
report. We are independent of the Group, in accordance 
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit 
of the consolidated financial statements in India in terms 
of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India and the relevant provisions of the 
Act, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with these requirements. We believe that 
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Key Audit Matters
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current period. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit 
of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and 
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. We have determined 
the matter described below to be the key audit matter to 
be communicated in our report.
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of impairment of goodwill, intangible assets 
with indefinite useful lives and other non-financial 
assets of Lloyd Consumer business (Refer Note 4 to the 
consolidated financial statements) 
As at March 31, 2025, the consolidated financial statements 
include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives 
and other non-financial assets pertaining to Lloyd Consumer 
business amounting to ` 310.47 crores, ` 1,029 crores and 
` 909.22 crores respectively. 
Considering the requirements of Indian Accounting Standard 
(Ind AS) - 36 'Impairment of Assets', the management 
tested the above-mentioned assets for impairment using a 
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model. Based on such test, 
the recoverable amount of the Cash Generating Unit (CGU) 
is higher than the carrying amount of the said assets and, 
accordingly, no adjustment for impairment is necessary. 
We considered this as a key audit matter because of the 
significant carrying amount of the above-mentioned assets 
and high estimation uncertainty in assumptions used such as 
discount rate, rate of growth over the estimation period and 
terminal growth rate which are affected by future market and 
economic conditions and, hence, are inherently uncertain. 
Our audit procedures among others, included the following:
a.	 Understanding and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal controls over the impairment 
assessment process, including preparation of the DCF 
model; 
b.	 Evaluating the Group's accounting policy in respect of 
impairment assessment of goodwill, intangible assets 
with indefinite useful lives and other non-financial assets; 
c.	 Understanding the cash flow projections and assumptions 
used in the DCF model, testing the mathematical accuracy 
and reviewing the report of the management expert;
d.	 Together with auditor's valuation experts, testing the 
appropriateness of the DCF model and key assumptions 
therein and performing sensitivity analysis over key 
assumptions within a reasonable and foreseeable range 
to corroborate that the recoverable amount of the CGU is 
not materially different to the Group's valuation; and 
e.	 Testing related presentation and disclosures in the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Havells India Limited
276
Other Information
5.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the other information. The other information comprises 
the information included in the Annual report but does 
not include the consolidated financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements does not cover the other information 
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon. 
	
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other 
information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the 
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, 
based on the work we have performed and the reports 
of the other auditors as furnished to us (Refer paragraph 
14 and 15 below), we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this other information, we are required to 
report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with 
Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements
6.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated 
financial statements in term of the requirements of the 
Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated 
financial position, consolidated financial performance and 
consolidated cash flows, and consolidated changes in 
equity of the Group in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian 
Accounting Standards specified under Section 133 of the 
Act. The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are responsible for maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the 
Group and for preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls, that were operating effectively for 
ensuring accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of 
the consolidated financial statements that give a true 
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for 
the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as 
aforesaid.
7.	
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are responsible for assessing the ability of 
the Group to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the 
going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of 
Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
8.	
The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are responsible for overseeing the 
financial reporting process of the Group.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
9.	
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the consolidated financial statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high 
level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can 
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial 
statements.
10.	 As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional 
judgment 
and 
maintain 
professional 
scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether 
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit 
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain 
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from 
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control.
	
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under 
Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible 
for expressing our opinion on whether the Holding 
Company has adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls.
	
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by 
management.
	
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
277
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
ability of the Group to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, 
we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the consolidated 
financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the 
date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern. 
	
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the consolidated financial statements, 
including 
the 
disclosures, 
and 
whether 
the 
consolidated financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation. 
	
•	
Obtain 
sufficient 
appropriate 
audit 
evidence 
regarding the financial information of the entities or 
business activities within the Group to express an 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements. 
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audit of the financial statements 
of such entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements of which we are the independent 
auditors. For the other entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements, which have 
been audited by other auditors, such other auditors 
remain responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audits carried out by them. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
11.	 We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other entities included in 
the consolidated financial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit.
12.	 We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to 
communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on 
our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
13.	 From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
14.	 The 
consolidated 
financial 
statements 
of 
three 
subsidiaries, reflect total assets of ` 93.95 crores and 
net assets of ` 52.78 crores as at March 31, 2025, total 
revenue of ` 18.12 crores, total comprehensive loss 
(comprising of loss and other comprehensive income) of 
` 11.03 crores and net cash inflows amounting to ` 3.28 
crores for the year ended on that date, as considered 
in the consolidated financial statements. The financial 
statements of these subsidiaries have been audited by 
other auditors whose reports have been furnished to 
us by the Holding Company’s management, and our 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar 
as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in 
respect of these subsidiaries, and our report in terms of 
sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act including report 
on Other Information insofar as it relates to the aforesaid 
subsidiaries, is based on the reports of the other auditors 
and the procedures performed by us. 
15.	 The financial statements of one subsidiary located outside 
India, included in the consolidated financial statements, 
which constitute total assets of ` 9.09 crores and net 
assets of ` 5.32 crores as at March 31, 2025, total revenue 
of ` 31.89 crores, total comprehensive loss (comprising of 
loss and other comprehensive income) of ` 4.07 crores 
and net cash outflows amounting to ` 0.50 crores for the 
year then ended; have been prepared in accordance with 
accounting principles generally accepted in their respective 
countries and have been audited by other auditors 
under generally accepted auditing standards applicable 
in their respective countries. The Holding Company’s 
management has converted the financial statements of 
such subsidiary located outside India from the accounting 
principles generally accepted in their respective countries 
to the accounting principles generally accepted in India. 
We have audited these conversion adjustments made by 
the Holding Company’s management. Our opinion in so far 
as it relates to the balances and affairs of such subsidiary 
located outside India, including other information, is 
based on the report of other auditors and the conversion 
adjustments prepared by the management of the Holding 
Company and audited by us.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and 
our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
below, is not modified in respect of the above matters 
with respect to our reliance on the work done and reports 
of the other auditors and the financial statements certified 
by the management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
16.	 This report does not contain a statement on the matter 
specified in paragraph 3(xxi) of ‘the Companies (Auditor’s 
Report) Order, 2020’ (“CARO 2020”) issued by the 
Havells India Limited
278
Central Government of India in terms of sub-section (11) 
of Section 143 of the Act as, in our opinion, and according 
to the information and explanations given to us, there 
are no qualifications or adverse remarks included in the 
CARO 2020 report issued in respect of the standalone 
financial statements of the Holding Company which is 
included in these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Further, according to the information and explanations 
given to us, CARO 2020 is not applicable to any of the 
other companies included in these Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
17.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to the 
extent applicable, that:
	
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit 
of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
	
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements have been kept 
so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books and the reports of the other auditors, except 
for the matters stated in paragraph 17(h)(vi) below 
on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended).
	
(c)	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including other 
comprehensive 
income), 
the 
Consolidated 
Statement 
of 
Changes 
in 
Equity 
and 
the 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows dealt with 
by this Report are in agreement with the relevant 
books of account and records maintained for the 
purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements.
	
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with the Indian Accounting 
Standards specified under Section 133 of the Act.
	
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Holding Company as on 
March 31, 2025, taken on record by the Board 
of Directors of the Holding Company, none of the 
directors of the Holding Company is disqualified 
as on March 31, 2025 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
	
(f)	
With respect to the maintenance of accounts and 
other matters connected therewith, reference is 
made to our remarks in paragraph 17(h)(vi) below on 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Rules.
	
(g)	
With respect to the adequacy of internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of the Group and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
report in Annexure A.
	
(h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
	
	
i.	
The consolidated financial statements disclose 
the impact, if any, of pending litigations on the 
consolidated financial position of the Group – 
Refer Note 31A to the consolidated financial 
statements.
	
	
ii.	
The Group was not required to recognise a 
provision as at March 31, 2025 under the 
applicable law or accounting standards, as it 
does not have any material foreseeable losses 
on long-term contract. The Group did not have 
any derivative contracts as at March 31, 2025.
	
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts required to be transferred to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund by the 
Holding Company during the year.
	
	
iv(a).	The management of the Holding Company 
has represented to us that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed 
in Note 32(18)(ii) to the consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been advanced 
or loaned or invested (either from borrowed 
funds or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Holding Company 
or any of such subsidiaries to or in any other 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether directly 
or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever by 
or on behalf of the Holding Company or any of 
such subsidiaries (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
(b)	
The management of the Holding Company 
has represented to us that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in 
the Note 32(18)(ii) to the consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been received 
by the Holding Company or any of such 
subsidiaries from any person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), 
with the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company or any 
of such subsidiaries shall, whether directly or 
indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
279
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
	
	
(c)	
Based on the audit procedures, that has been 
considered reasonable and appropriate in 
the circumstances, performed by us, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us 
to believe that the representations under sub-
clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) contain any 
material misstatement. 
	
v.	
The dividend declared and paid by the Holding 
Company is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act. 
	
vi.	
Based on our examination, which included test checks, 
the Holding Company, which is the only company in 
the Group which is incorporated in India, has used 
accounting software for maintaining its books of 
account which have a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility and that have operated throughout 
the financial year for all relevant transactions recorded 
in the software except: (a) that the audit trail feature 
for modification, if any, made by users having specific 
(debug) access was enabled from June 17, 2024; 
and (b) that the audit trail feature at database level 
contains only the modified values; and it did not 
operate during the period from December 31, 2024 to 
February 28, 2025. During the course of performing 
our procedures, we did not notice any instance of 
audit trail feature being tampered with for the period 
the audit trail was enabled. (Also, refer note 32(20) 
to the financial statements for reasons related to the 
exception at (b) above)
	
	
Additionally, the audit trail, where enabled, has been 
preserved by the Company as per the statutory 
requirements for record retention.
18.	 The Holding Company has paid/ provided for managerial 
remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals 
mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with 
Schedule V to the Act. 
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/E-300009
Sougata Mukherjee
Partner
Place: Noida
Membership Number: 057084
Date: April 22, 2025
UDIN: 25057084BMOASL1667
Havells India Limited
280
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 17(g) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the 
members of Havells India Limited on the consolidated financial statements as of and for 
the year ended March 31, 2025
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements under clause (i) 
of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the Company as of and for the year ended 
March 31, 2025, we have audited the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements of Havells India 
Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding Company”) as 
of that date. There are no subsidiaries incorporated in India.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
2.	
The Board of Directors of the Holding Company is responsible 
for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on internal control over financial reporting criteria 
established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(“the Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to the respective company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection 
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI and 
the Standards on Auditing specified under Section 143(10) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to 
an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls and both issued by the 
ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that 
we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements was established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
system with reference to financial statements and their 
operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Holding Company’s internal financial controls 
system with reference to consolidated financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to financial statements
6.	
A company’s internal financial control with reference to 
financial statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for 
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial control 
with reference to financial statements includes those 
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance 
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the company are being made only in accordance 
with authorisations of management and directors of the 
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, 
use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have 
a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to financial statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override 
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud 
may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk 
that the internal financial control with reference to financial 
statements may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies 
or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Holding Company has, in all material 
respects, an adequate internal financial controls system with 
reference to financial statements and such internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements were operating 
effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control 
over financial reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/E-300009
Sougata Mukherjee
Partner
Place: Noida
Membership Number: 057084
Date: April 22, 2025
UDIN: 25057084BMOASL1667
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
281
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at March 31, 2025
HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED
(L31900DL1983PLC016304)
(` in crores)
Notes
 As At 
March 31, 2025
 As At 
March 31, 2024
ASSETS
1
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3
3,252.13 
2,606.26 
Capital work in progress
3
116.47 
296.91 
Goodwill 
4
310.47 
310.47 
Other intangible assets
4
1,089.31 
1,071.16 
Intangible assets under development
5
1.72 
1.79 
Financial assets
6
(i)	
Investments 
6(A)
10.98 
 20.00 
(ii)	 Trade receivables
6(B)
0.39 
0.25 
(iii)	 Other financial assets
6(C)
36.44 
 33.15 
Contract assets 
5(B)
1.01 
 11.55 
Other non-current assets
7
97.01 
146.62 
Non current tax assets (net)
8
22.97 
 34.92 
Total non current assets
4,938.90 
4,533.08 
2
Current assets
Inventories
9
4,046.85 
3,408.63 
Financial assets
10
(i)	
Trade receivables
10(A)
1,258.33 
1,164.95 
(ii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
10(B)
807.25 
266.10 
(iii)	 Bank balances other than (ii) above
10(C)
2,570.86 
2,772.07 
(iv)	 Other financial assets
10(D)
5.65 
 20.99 
Contract assets
5(B)
11.33 
 27.54 
Other current assets
11
166.82 
237.15 
Total current assets
8,867.09 
7,897.43 
Assets classified as held for sale
12
3.42 
2.18 
8,870.51 
7,899.61 
Total assets
 13,809.41 
 12,432.69 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1
Equity
13
Equity share capital
13(A)
62.69 
 62.67 
Other equity
13(B)
8,261.10 
7,384.09 
Equity attributable to equity holders of parent company
8,323.79 
7,446.76 
Non controlling interest
17.18 
-
8,340.97 
7,446.76 
2
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
14
(i)	
Lease liabilities
14(A)
241.00 
242.44 
(ii)	 Other financial liabilities
14(B)
12.53 
4.05 
Contract liabilities
5(C)
5.78 
4.64 
Provisions
15
54.74 
 87.72 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
16
375.32 
357.52 
Other non-current liabilities
17
4.31 
6.48 
Total non current liabilities
693.68 
702.85 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
18
(i)	
Lease liabilities
18(A)
77.54 
 60.72 
(ii)	 Trade payables
18(B)
	
a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises; and
18(B)
198.88 
203.70 
	
b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
18(B)
2,848.10 
2,488.20 
(iii)	 Other financial liabilities
18(C)
870.02 
787.68 
Contract liabilities
5(C)
106.03 
101.31 
Provisions
19
334.90 
277.67 
Current tax liabilities (net)
20
62.68 
 85.20 
Other current liabilities
21
276.61 
278.60 
Total current liabilities
4,774.76 
4,283.08 
Total liabilities
5,468.44 
4,985.93 
Total equity and liabilities
 13,809.41 
 12,432.69 
Summary of material accounting policies
2
Commitments and contingencies
31
Other notes to financial statements
32
The above Consolidated balance sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 22, 2025	
Date: April 22, 2025	
Manish Kaushik
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Accounts
Havells India Limited
282
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
for the year ended March 31, 2025
HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED
(CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304)
The above Consolidated statement of profit and loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 22, 2025	
Date: April 22, 2025	
Manish Kaushik
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Accounts
(` in crores)
Notes
 Year ended 
March 31, 2025
 Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I
INCOME
Revenue from operations
22
21,778.06 
18,590.01 
Other income
23
303.27 
248.96 
Total Income
22,081.33 
18,838.97 
II
EXPENSES
Cost of raw materials and components consumed
24
11,999.30 
 9,873.77 
Purchase of traded goods
25
 3,148.93 
 2,452.18 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, traded goods and work in progress
26
(539.86)
242.73 
Employee benefits expense
27
 1,870.02 
 1,548.35 
Finance costs
28
 43.24 
45.71 
Depreciation and amortization expenses
29
400.40 
338.50 
Other expenses
30
 3,125.13 
 2,612.70 
Net impairment losses on financial and contract assets
30A
 43.68 
17.66 
Total expenses
20,090.84 
17,131.60 
III
Profit before tax 
 1,990.49 
 1,707.37 
IV
Income tax expense
16
Current tax 
502.45 
440.60 
Deferred tax {(refer note 16(d)}
 17.80 
(3.99)
Total tax expense
520.25 
436.61 
V
Profit for the year
 1,470.24 
 1,270.76 
VI
Other comprehensive income 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
i)	
Re-measurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plans {refer note 32(4)}
(29.90)
(6.43)
ii)	
Income tax effect on above {refer note no 16(d)}
 7.54 
 1.62 
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
i)	
Exchange difference on translation of financial statements of foreign operations 
 1.25 
(0.21)
ii)	
Income tax effect on above 
 - 
- 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax
(21.11)
(5.02)
VII
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 1,449.13 
 1,265.74 
Profit for the year attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent company
 1,472.26 
 1,270.76 
Non controlling interests 
 (2.02)
- 
Other comprehensive (income)/loss for the year attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent company
(21.29)
(5.02)
Non controlling interests 
 0.18 
- 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent company
 1,450.97 
 1,265.74 
Non controlling interests 
 (1.84)
- 
VIII
Earnings per equity share attributable to equity holders of parent 
company {refer note no. 32 (12)}
(nominal value of share ` 1/-)
Basic EPS (`)
 23.49 
20.28 
Diluted EPS (`)
 23.48 
20.28 
Summary of material accounting policies
2
Commitments and contingencies
31
Other notes to financial statements
32
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
283
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended March 31, 2025
A)	 Equity Share Capital
(` in crores)
Particulars
Notes
Numbers 
Amount
As at April 1, 2023
13(A)
 62,65,09,738 
 62.65 
Add: Exercise of employee stock purchase plan - proceeds received 
 1,73,292 
 0.02 
As at March 31, 2024
 62,66,83,030 
 62.67 
Add: Exercise of employee stock purchase plan - proceeds received 
 2,58,702 
 0.03 
As at March 31, 2025
 62,69,41,732 
 62.69 
B)	 Other Equity
(` in crores)
Particulars 
Attributable to equity shareholders of parent company 
 Attributable 
to non-
controlling 
interests 
 Total 
other 
equity 
Reserves and surplus 
Items of 
OCI 
Total 
Notes 
Capital 
reserve 
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve 
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account 
Retained 
earnings 
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve 
As at April 1, 2023 
13(B)
7.63 
148.15 
722.72 
2.30  5,681.16 
0.84 6,562.80 
- 6,562.80 
Profit for the year 
- 
- 
- 
 -  1,270.76 
1,270.76 
- 1,270.76 
Other comprehensive 
income for the year 
 - 
- 
- 
Re-measurement gains / 
(losses) on defined benefit 
plans net of tax
- 
- 
- 
- 
 - 
(4.81)
(4.81)
- 
 (4.81)
Exchange difference on 
translation of financial 
statements of foreign 
operations 
(0.21)
(0.21)
- 
 (0.21)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year 
- 
- 
- 
 -  1,265.95 
(0.21)
1,265.74 
1,265.74 
Transactions with 
owners in their capacity 
as owners: 
Final and interim dividend 
paid during the year 
- 
- 
- 
 - 
(470.01)
(470.01)
- 
(470.01)
Equity shares issued 
under employee stock 
purchase plan 
- 
 21.30 
- 
7.67 
 - 
28.97 
- 
 28.97 
Options vested and 
exercised during the year 
- 
- 
- 
(3.41)
 - 
(3.41)
- 
 (3.41)
As at March 31, 2024 
7.63 
169.45 
722.72 
6.56  6,477.10 
0.63 7,384.09 
- 7,384.09 
Profit for the year 
- 
- 
- 
 -  1,472.26 
 1,472.26 
(2.02) 1,470.24 
Other comprehensive 
income for the year 
 - 
- 
Re-measurement gains / 
(losses) on defined benefit 
plans net of tax
- 
- 
- 
- 
 - 
(22.36)
 (22.36)
(22.36)
Exchange difference on 
translation of financial 
statements of foreign 
operations 
1.07 
 1.07 
0.18 
1.25 
Total Comprehensive 
income for the year 
- 
- 
- 
 -  1,449.90 
1.07 1,450.70 
(1.84) 1,449.13 
Havells India Limited
284
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Particulars 
Attributable to equity shareholders of parent company 
 Attributable 
to non-
controlling 
interests 
 Total 
other 
equity 
Reserves and surplus 
Items of 
OCI 
Total 
Notes 
Capital 
reserve 
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve 
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account 
Retained 
earnings 
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve 
Acquisition of subsidiary 
 19.02 
 19.02 
Transaction with owners 
in their capacity as 
owners: 
Final and interim dividend 
paid during the year 
- 
- 
- 
 - 
(626.93)
(626.93)
- 
(626.93)
 Equity shares issued 
under employee stock 
purchase plan 
- 
 42.52 
- 
18.17 
 - 
60.69 
- 
 60.69 
Options vested and 
exercised during the year 
- 
- 
- 
(7.72)
 - 
(7.72)
- 
 (7.72)
As at March 31, 2025 
7.63 
 211.97 
722.72 
17.01  7,300.07 
 1.70 8,261.10 
 17.18 8,278.28 
Summary of material 
accounting policies
2
Commitments and 
contingencies
31
Other notes to financial 
statements
32
The above Consolidated statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 22, 2025	
Date: April 22, 2025	
Manish Kaushik
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Accounts
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
285
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
 Year ended 
March 31, 2024
A.
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax
1,990.49 
1,707.37 
Adjustments for :
Depreciation and amortisation expense 
 400.40 
 338.50 
Loss /(gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (net) 
 15.10 
(10.27)
Exchange difference on translation of financial statements of foreign operations 
-
 (0.21)
Unrealized foreign exchange loss /(gain) (net) 
 (5.22)
 (0.31)
Fair value (gain)/loss on financial assets
9.03
-
Net impairment losses on financial and contract assets 
 43.68 
 17.66 
Employee stock purchase plan expense 
 10.45 
4.26 
Insurance claim received 
(17.05)
-
Interest income on bank deposits and investment 
 (225.57)
 (184.88)
Finance cost 
 43.24 
 45.55 
Operating Profit
2,264.55 
1,917.67 
Change in operating assets and liabilities
(Increase)/ Decrease in trade receivables 
 (136.12)
 (205.83)
(Increase)/ Decrease in contract assets 
 26.75 
 12.39 
(Increase)/ Decrease in other financial assets 
(0.43)
 63.00 
(Increase)/ Decrease in non current assets 
0.47 
 10.92 
(Increase)/ Decrease in other current assets 
 70.35 
(58.63)
(Increase)/ Decrease in inventories 
 (637.73)
 299.95 
Increase/ (Decrease) in trade payables 
 363.52 
 52.82 
Increase/ (Decrease) in financial liabilities 
 80.91 
 161.00 
Increase/ (Decrease) in other liabilities 
 (4.17)
 136.99 
Increase/ (Decrease) in contract liabilities 
5.84 
 19.32 
Increase/ (Decrease) in provisions 
(13.17)
(64.78)
Cash generated from operations
2,020.77 
2,344.82 
Income tax paid (net of refunds) 
 (505.48)
 (391.93)
Net cash inflow from operating activities (A)
1,515.29
1,952.89 
B. CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Payment for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
 (765.95)
 (786.07)
Receipt of grant related to assets 
-
3.21 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 
 12.19 
 23.80 
Investment in fixed deposits with bank and financial institution 
180.23 
 (1,037.08)
Receipt of insurance claim related to assets 
32.85
 31.27 
Interest on fixed deposit and investment received 
 239.10 
 151.01 
Net Cash inflow /(outflow) from Investing Activities (B)
 (301.58)
 (1,613.86)
C. CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Transactions with non-controlling interests 
 19.02 
-
Proceeds from exercise of employee stock purchase plan - share capital and 
securities premium received
 42.54 
 21.32 
Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities 
(67.89)
(51.33)
Payment of interest portion of lease liabilities 
(28.27)
(25.82)
Interest paid 
 (7.45)
 (7.62)
Dividends paid to group's owners 
 (626.81)
 (470.10)
Net cash inflow /(outflow) from Financing Activities (C)
 (668.86)
 (533.55)
Havells India Limited
286
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
 Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 544.85 
 (194.52)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 266.10 
 465.16 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents held in 
foreign currency
(3.70)
 (4.54)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
807.25 
 266.10 
Non Cash financing and investing activities
Acquisition of right-of-use assets
108.61 
 133.72 
Notes :
1	
The above statement of cash flows has been prepared under the “Indirect Method” as set out in IND AS-7, “Statement of 
Cash Flows”. 
2	
Components of cash and cash equivalents :- 
(` in crores)
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash and cash equivalents
Balances with banks: 
Current accounts 
 59.81 
 56.67 
Cash credit accounts 
 31.67 
 69.94 
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months
715.59 
 139.36 
Cash on hand 
 0.18 
 0.13 
 807.25 
 266.10 
The above Consolidated statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 22, 2025	
Date: April 22, 2025	
Manish Kaushik
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Accounts
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
287
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
1.	
Corporate Information
	
Havells India Limited (‘the Group’) is a public limited 
Group domiciled in India and incorporated on August 
08, 1983 under the provisions of the Companies Act, 
1956 having its registered office at 904, 9th Floor, Surya 
Kiran Building, K.G. Marg, Connaught Place, New 
Delhi-110001. The Group is listed on BSE Limited 
and NSE of India Limited. The CIN of the Group is 
L31900DL1983PLC016304
	
The Group is consumer electrical/electronics and power 
distribution equipment manufacturer with products 
ranging from Industrial and Domestic Circuit Protection 
Switchgears, Cables, Motors, Pumps, Solar Products, 
Fans, Power Capacitors, LED Lamps and Luminaries 
for Domestic, Commercial and Industrial applications, 
Modular Switches, Water Heaters, Coolers and Domestic 
Appliances, Personal Grooming, Air Purifier, Water 
Purifier, Air conditioner, Television, Washing machine 
and Refrigerator covering the entire range of household, 
commercial and industrial electrical needs. 
	
The Group’s manufacturing facilities are located at 
Alwar, Ghiloth and Neemrana in Rajasthan, Haridwar 
in Uttarakhand, Sahibabad in Uttar Pradesh, Baddi 
in Himachal Pradesh, Faridabad in Haryana, Sri City 
in Andhra Pradesh and Tumakuru in Karnataka. The 
research and development facilities are located at  Noida 
(Uttar Pradesh), Bangalore and Ghiloth (Rajasthan).
	
The financial statements are for the Group consisting 
of Havells India Limited  and its subsidiaries (together 
referred to as the ‘Group’).
2.	
Summary of material accounting policies
	
This note provides a list of the material accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind-AS) Consolidated financial statements. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all the 
years except where newly issued accounting standard is 
initially adopted.
2.01	Basis of preparation of Consolidated Financial 
Statements
	
These Consolidated financial statements of the Group 
have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) notified under the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from 
time to time) and presentation requirements of Division 
II of Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS 
compliant Schedule III). 
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a 
historical cost convention, except for the following assets 
and liabilities:
	
i)	
Certain financial assets and liabilities that is 
measured at fair value/ subsequently measured at 
amortized cost
	
ii)	
Assets held for sale-measured at fair value less 
cost to sell
	
iii)	
Defined benefit plans-plan assets measured at fair 
value
	
iv)	
Share based payments
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide notification dated 
9 September 2024 and 28 September 2024 notified 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Second 
Amendment Rules, 2024 and Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Third Amendment Rules, 2024, 
respectively, which amended/ notified certain accounting 
standards (see below), and are effective for annual 
reporting periods beginning on or after April 1, 2024:
	
-	
Insurance contracts - Ind AS 117 and
	
-	
Lease Liability in Sale and Leaseback — 
Amendments to Ind AS 116
	
These amendments did not have any material impact 
on the amounts recognised in prior periods and are 
not expected to significantly affect the current or future 
periods.
2.02	Property, plant and equipment
	
Freehold Land is carried at historical cost. All other items 
of Property, Plant and equipment are stated at cost, less 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment 
losses, if any. 
	
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is 
calculated on prorata basis on straight-line method using 
the useful lives of the assets estimated by management. 
The useful life is as follows:
Assets 
Useful life (in years)
Building
30 and 60
Plant and Equipment
15
Moulds and Dies
6
Furniture and Fixtures
10
Vehicles
8 and 10
R &D Equipment
5 and15 
Office Equipment
3 and 5
Mobile Phones
3
Electric Fans and Installations
10 
Computers
3
Laptops
4
Havells India Limited
288
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
The useful lives of all the assets except moulds and 
dies, mobile phones and laptops have been determined 
as those specified by part ‘C’ of Schedule II to the 
Companies Act, 2013. In respect of moulds and dies 
and mobile phones, useful lives are lower than those 
specified by schedule II to the Companies Act 2013 and 
are depreciated over the estimated useful lives of 6 years, 
3 years respectively, in respect of laptop useful life is more 
than those specified by schedule II to the Company Act 
2013 and are depreciated over the estimated useful life 
of 4 years, in order to reflect the actual usage of assets. 
The residual values are not more than 5% of the original 
cost of the assets. The asset’s residual values and useful 
lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate.
	
Lease hold improvements are depreciated on straight 
line basis over shorter of the asset’s useful life and their 
lease term unless the entity expects to use the asset 
beyond the lease term.
	
Leasehold land is amortized on a straight line basis over 
the unexpired period of their respective lease ranging 
from 90-99 years.
2.03	Intangible assets
	
Separately acquired intangible assets
	
Intangible assets with finite useful life are amortized on a 
straight line basis over their estimated useful life as under
Assets 
Useful life (in years)
Computer Software
6
R&D Software
6
Distributor/ Dealer Network
8
Non-Compete Fee
7
Brand and Trademarks
Indefinite
Patents and trademarks
10
	
Brand and Trademarks 
	
Brand and Trademarks acquired in business combination 
are initially recognised at fair value at the date of 
acquisition. Following initial recognition, brand and 
trademark are carried at the above recognised value less 
accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment 
losses, if any. These Brand and trademarks have been 
in existence for considerable period and Group intends 
to continue use this intangible assets. Consequently it 
is believed that they have an indefinite life and are not 
amortised. Instead impairment testing is performed 
annually and whenever a triggering event has occurred 
to determine whether the carrying value exceeds the 
recoverable amount.
	
Patents and Trademarks
	
Patents and Trademarks acquired are intellectual 
property right under business combinations that have a 
useful life of 10 years and consequently amortised on 
straight-line basis. This determination is primarily based 
on the long term economic benefit expected from the 
underlying product-level intellectual property, proprietary 
technology, and installation innovation.
	
Distributor/ Dealer Network
	
Distributor/ Dealer Network acquired in business 
combination are initially recognised at fair value at the date 
of acquisition. Following initial recognition, Distributor/ 
Dealer Network are carried at the above recognised 
value less accumulated amortization and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. They are amortised on a 
straight line basis over their estimated useful life of 8 
years assessed by the management.
	
Goodwill 
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of 
the aggregate of the consideration transferred over the 
fair value of net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed. If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in 
excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the 
Group re-assesses whether it has correctly identified all 
of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed 
and reviews the procedures used to measure the 
amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date. If the 
reassessment still results in an excess of the fair value 
of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration 
transferred, then the gain is recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in equity as 
capital reserve. However, if there is no clear evidence of 
bargain purchase, the entity recognizes the gain directly 
in equity as capital reserve, without routing the same 
through other comprehensive income.
	
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost 
less any accumulated impairment losses, if any. For 
the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired 
in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, 
allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units 
that are expected to benefit from the combination, 
irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the 
acquire are assigned to those units. 
	
A cash generating unit to which goodwill has been 
allocated is tested for impairment annually or earlier, when 
there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the 
recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less 
than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated 
first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the 
unit pro rata based on the carrying amount of each asset 
in the unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised 
in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognised for 
goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
289
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating 
unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed 
of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation 
is included in the carrying amount of the operation 
when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill 
disposed in these circumstances is measured based 
on the relative values of the disposed operation and the 
portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
2.04	Impairment of non- financial assets
	
The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether 
there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If 
any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing 
for an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s 
recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is 
the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) 
fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. The 
recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, 
unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are 
largely independent of those from other assets or groups 
of assets. When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU 
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered 
impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. 
In determining fair value less costs of disposal, recent 
market transactions are taken into account. If no such 
transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation 
model is used. These calculations are corroborated 
by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly 
traded companies or other available fair value indicators.
	
The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed 
budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared 
separately for each of the Group’s CGUs to which the 
individual assets are allocated. These budgets and 
forecast calculations generally cover a period of five 
years. For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is 
calculated and applied to project future cash flows 
after the fifth year. To estimate cash flow projections 
beyond periods covered by the most recent budgets/
forecasts, the Group extrapolates cash flow projections 
in the budget using a steady or declining growth rate 
for subsequent years, unless an increasing rate can be 
justified. In any case, this growth rate does not exceed 
the long-term average growth rate for the products, 
industries, or country or countries in which the Group 
operates, or for the market in which the asset is used.
	
Impairment losses of continuing operations, including 
impairment on inventories, are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss, except for properties 
previously revalued with the revaluation surplus taken to 
OCI. For such properties, the impairment is recognised in 
OCI up to the amount of any previous revaluation surplus.
	
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and when 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be 
impaired. Impairment is determined for goodwill by 
assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU (or group of 
CGUs) to which the goodwill relates. When the recoverable 
amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an 
impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating 
to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for 
impairment annually as at March 31 at the CGU level, as 
appropriate, and when circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value may be impaired.
2.05	Financial instruments 
	
(i)	
Financial Assets
	
	
The Group classifies its financial assets in the 
following measurement categories:
	
	
-	
Those to be measured subsequently at fair 
value through profit or loss
	
	
-	
Those measured at amortized cost
	
	
The classification of financial assets at initial 
recognition depends on the financial asset’s 
contractual cash flow characteristics and the 
Group’s business model for managing them
	
Initial recognition measurement
	
With the exception of trade receivables that do not 
contain a material financing component or for which the 
Group has applied the practical expedient, the Group 
initially measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, 
in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through 
profit or loss, transaction costs. 
	
Trade receivables that do not contain a material financing 
component or for which the Group has applied the practical 
expedient are measured at the transaction price determined 
under Ind AS 115. Refer to the accounting policies in 
section ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’.
	
Financial assets at amortised cost (debt instruments)
	
A ‘financial asset’ is measured at the amortised cost if 
both the following conditions are met:
	
a)	
Business Model Test : The objective is to hold the 
financial asset to collect the contractual cash flows 
(rather than to sell the instrument prior to its contractual 
maturity to realize its fair value changes) and;
	
b)	
Cash flow characteristics test: The contractual 
terms of the financial asset give rise on specific 
dates to cash flows that are solely payments 
of principal and interest on principal amount 
outstanding.
Havells India Limited
290
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are 
carried in the balance sheet at fair value with net changes 
in fair value recognised in the statement of profit and 
loss. 
	
ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures 
for which there has not been a material increase in credit 
risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit 
losses that result from default events that are possible 
within the next 12-months (a 12-month ECL). For those 
credit exposures for which there has been a material 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss 
allowance is required for credit losses expected over the 
remaining life of the exposure, irrespective of the timing 
of the default (a lifetime ECL).
	
The Group follows “simplified approach” for recognition 
of impairment loss allowance on:
	
Trade receivables or contract revenue receivables; Trade 
receivables which are held to collect and sale basis 
accounted for as FVTPL
	
Under the simplified approach, the Group does not track 
changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognizes impairment 
loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting 
date, right from its initial recognition. The Group uses a 
provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance 
on the portfolio of trade receivables. The provision matrix 
is based on its historically observed default rates over 
the expected life of trade receivable and is adjusted 
for forward looking estimates. At every reporting date, 
the historical observed default rates are updated and 
changes in the forward looking estimates are analysed.
2.06	Inventories
	
The costs of individual items of inventory are determined 
on a moving weightage average basis. Volume rebates 
or discounts are taken into account when estimating 
the cost of inventory if it is probable that they have been 
earned and will take effect.See note 2.12(i) for the other 
accounting policies for inventories.
2.07	Revenue from contract with customers
	
The Group manufactures/ trades and sells a range of 
consumer electrical and electronic products. Revenue 
from contracts with customers involving sale of these 
products is recognized at a point in time when control 
of the product has been transferred, and there are no 
unfulfilled obligation that could affect the customer’s 
acceptance of the products which usually happen on 
delivery/ despatch of the goods as applicable. The 
Group also provides installation, annual maintenance 
and warranty services that are either sold separately 
or bundled together with the sale of goods. The 
Group recognizes these service revenue from sales of 
services over a period of time, because the customer 
simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits 
provided by the Group. Revenue from such services 
is recognised when the Group has objective evidence 
that all criterion for acceptance has been satisfied. A 
receivable is recognised when the control of the product 
is transferred as the consideration is unconditional and 
payment becomes due upon passage of time as per the 
terms of contract with customers.
	
(a)	
Sale of goods
	
	
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised at 
the point in time when control of the goods 
is transferred to the customer, generally on 
delivery of the goods and there are no unfulfilled 
obligations.
	
	
The Group considers, whether there are other 
promises in the contract in which there are 
separate performance obligations, to which 
a portion of the transaction price needs to be 
allocated. In determining the transaction price for 
the sale of goods, the Group allocates a portion 
of the transaction price to different performance 
obligations goods bases on its relative Consolidated 
prices and also considers the following:-
	
(i)	
Variable consideration
	
	
The Group recognizes revenue from the sale of 
goods measured at the Consolidated selling price 
of the consideration received or receivable, net 
of returns and allowances, trade discounts and 
volume rebates. If the consideration in a contract 
includes a variable amount, the Group estimates 
the amount of consideration to which it will be 
entitled in exchange for transferring the goods to the 
customer. The variable consideration is estimated 
at contract inception and constrained until it is 
highly probable that a material revenue reversal 
in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised 
will not occur when the associated uncertainty 
with the variable consideration is subsequently 
resolved. The Group operates several sales 
incentive programmes wherein the customers 
are eligible for several benefits on achievement of 
underlying conditions as prescribed in the scheme 
programme such as credit notes, reimbursement, 
investments etc. Revenue from contract with 
customer is presented after deducting cost of all 
these schemes.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
291
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
(ii)	
Warranty obligations
	
	
The Group generally provides for warranties 
for general repair of defects. These warranties 
are assurance-type warranties under Ind AS 
115, which are accounted for under Ind AS 37 
(Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent 
Assets). 
However, 
in 
certain 
non-standard 
contracts in respect of sale of consumer durable 
goods, the Group provides extended warranties 
and such warranties are termed as service-
type warranties and therefore, accounted for 
as separate performance obligations to which 
the Group allocates a portion of the transaction 
price. Revenue from service-type warranties is 
recognised over the period in which the service is 
provided based on the time elapsed
	
(iii)	
Singificant Financing Components
	
	
In respect of short-term advances from its 
customers, using the practical expedient in Ind 
AS 115, the Group does not adjust the promised 
amount of consideration for the effects of a material 
financing component if it expects, at contract 
inception, that the period between the transfer of 
the promised good or service to the customer and 
when the customer pays for that good or service 
will be within normal operating cycle.
	
	
In respect of long term contracts, the transaction 
price for these contracts is discounted, using the 
interest rate implicit in the contract (i.e., the interest 
rate that discounts the cash selling price of the 
equipment to the amount paid in advance).
	
	
No material element of financing is deemed present 
as the sales are made with a credit term of 21 to 90 
days, which is consistent with market practice.
	
(b)	
Sale of services
	
	
The 
Group 
provides 
installation, 
annual 
maintenance and extended warranty services that 
are sold separately. The Group recognizes revenue 
from sales of services over time, because the 
customer simultaneously receives and consumes 
the benefits provided by the Group. Revenue from 
services related activities is recognised as and 
when services are rendered and on the basis of 
contractual terms with the parties.
	
(c)	
Contract balances
	
	
A contract asset is the right to consideration in 
exchange for goods or services transferred to 
the customer. Contract assets are in the nature 
of unbilled receivables, which arises when Group 
satisfies a performance obligation but does not 
have an unconditional rights to consideration. 
A receivables represents the Group’s right to an 
amount of consideration that is unconditional. 
Contract assets are subject to impairment 
assessment. Refer to accounting policies on 
impairment of financial assets in section (Financial 
instruments – initial recognition and subsequent 
measurement).
	
	
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer 
goods or services to a customer for which the 
Group has received consideration (or an amount 
of consideration is due) from the customer. If a 
customer pays consideration before the Group 
transfers goods or services to the customer, a 
contract liability is recognised when the payment is 
made or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). 
Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue 
when the Group performs under the contract (i.e., 
transfers control of the related goods or services to 
the customer).
	
	
A trade receivable is recognised if an amount of 
consideration that is unconditional (i.e., only the 
passage of time is required before payment of the 
consideration is due). Refer to accounting policies 
of financial assets in section (Financial instruments 
– initial recognition and subsequent measurement).
	
(d)	
Income from Service Concession Arrangement
	
	
Revenue related to Street Lights Upgrade services 
provided under service concession arrangement is 
recognized as per the agreement with the grantor. 
The Group recognizes a financial asset arising from 
the service concession agreement when it has an 
unconditional contractual right to receive cash or 
another financial asset from or at the direction of the 
grantor of the concession for the upgrade services 
provided. Such financial assets are measured at 
fair value upon initial recognition.
2.08	Other Income
	
(a)	
Interest Income
	
	
For all debt instruments measured either at 
amortised cost or at fair value through other 
comprehensive income, interest income is recorded 
using the effective interest rate (EIR). EIR is the rate 
that exactly discounts the estimated future cash 
payments or receipts over the expected life of 
the financial instrument or a shorter period, where 
appropriate, to the gross carrying amount of the 
financial asset or to the amortised cost of a financial 
Havells India Limited
292
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, 
the Group estimates the expected cash flows by 
considering all the contractual terms of the financial 
instrument (for example, prepayment, extension, 
call and similar options) but does not consider the 
expected credit losses. Interest income is included 
in other income in the statement of profit and loss.
2.09	Leases
	
Group as a lessee
	
The Group’s lease asset classes primarily comprise of 
lease for land and building. The Group applies a single 
recognition and measurement approach for all leases, 
except for short-term leases and leases of low-value 
assets. The Group recognises lease liabilities to make 
lease payments and right-of-use assets representing the 
right to use the underlying assets.
	
i)	
Right-of-use assets (ROU)
	
	
The Group classifies ROU assets as part of 
Property plant and equipment in Balance Sheet 
and lease liability in “Financial Liability”.
	
ii)	
Lease Liabilities
	
	
In calculating the present value of lease payments, 
the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate 
at the lease commencement date because the 
interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily 
determinable. 
	
(iii)	
Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
	
	
The Group applies the short-term lease recognition 
exemption to its short-term leases (i.e., those 
leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less 
from the commencement date and do not contain 
a purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-
value assets recognition exemption to leases that 
are considered to be low value. Lease payments 
on short-term leases and leases of low-value 
assets are recognised as expense on a straight-
line basis over the lease term.”
2.10	Provisions and Contingent Liabilities 
	
Warranty Provisions
	
Provision for warranty-related costs are recognized when 
the product is sold or service is provided to customer. 
Initial recognition is based on historical experience. the 
Group periodically reviews the adequacy of product 
warranties and adjust warranty percentage and 
warranty provisions for actual experience, if necessary. 
The timing of outflow is expected to be with in one to 
seven years.
2.11	Material accounting judgments, estimates and 
assumptions
	
The preparation of these Consolidated financial 
statements 
requires 
the 
management 
to 
make 
judgments, use estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets 
and liabilities, and the acGrouping disclosures, and the 
disclosure of contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about 
these judgements, assumptions and estimates could 
result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to 
the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in 
future periods.
	
a)	
Leases
	
	
The Group determines the lease term as the 
non-cancellable term of the lease, together with 
any periods covered by an option to extend the 
lease if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, 
or any periods covered by an option to terminate 
the lease, if it is reasonably certain not to be 
exercised.
	
	
The Group has several lease contracts that 
include extension and termination options. The 
Group applies judgement in evaluating whether it 
is reasonably certain whether or not to exercise 
the option to renew or terminate the lease. That 
is, it considers all relevant factors that create an 
economic incentive for it to exercise either the 
renewal or termination. After the commencement 
date, the Group reassesses the lease term if there 
is a material event or change in circumstances that 
is within its control and affects its ability to exercise 
or not to exercise the option to renew or to 
terminate (e.g., construction of material leasehold 
improvements or material customisation to the 
leased asset).
	
b)	
Taxes
	
	
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation 
of tax regulations, changes in tax laws, and the 
amount and timing of future taxable income. 
Given the wide range of business relationships 
differences arising between the actual results and 
the assumptions made, or future changes to such 
assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments 
to tax income and expense already recorded. The 
Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable 
estimates. The amount of such provisions is based 
on various factors, such as experience of previous 
tax assessments and differing interpretations 
of tax regulations by the taxable entity and the 
responsible tax authority. (Refer Note 17)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
293
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
c)	
Gratuity benefit and Leave obligation
	
	
The cost of defined benefit plans (i.e. Gratuity 
benefit) and other long term employee obligations 
(i.e Leave obligation) is determined using actuarial 
valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making 
various assumptions which may differ from actual 
developments in the future. These include the 
determination of the discount rate, future salary 
increases, mortality rates and future pension 
increases. Due to the complexity of the valuation, 
the underlying assumptions and its long-term 
nature, a defined benefit obligation and leave 
obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these 
assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed 
at each reporting date. In determining the 
appropriate discount rate, management considers 
the interest rates of long term government bonds 
with extrapolated maturity corresponding to the 
expected duration of the defined benefit obligation. 
The mortality rate is based on publicly available 
mortality tables for India. Future salary increases 
and pension increases are based on expected 
future inflation rates for India. Further details about 
the assumptions used, including a sensitivity 
analysis, are given in Note 32(4).
	
d)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
The Group assesses at each reporting date 
whether there is an indication that an asset 
including intangible assets having indefinite useful 
life and goodwill may be impaired. If any indication 
exists, or when annual impairment testing for an 
asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s 
recoverable amount. An assets recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s CGU’S fair value 
less cost of disposal and its value in use. Where 
the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds 
its recoverable amount, the asset is considered 
impaired and is written down to its recoverable 
amount.
	
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are estimated based on past trend 
and discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset. In determining 
fair value less costs of disposal, recent market 
transactions are taken into account. If no such 
transactions can be identified, an appropriate 
valuation model is used. These calculations are 
corroborated by valuation multiples, or other fair 
value indicators. 
	
e)	
Provision for warranty
	
	
Warranty provisions is determined based on the 
historical percentage of warranty expense to 
sales for the same types of goods for which the 
warranty is currently being determined. The same 
percentage to the sales is applied for the current 
accounting period to derive the warranty expense 
to be accrued. It is adjusted to account for unusual 
factors related to the goods that were sold, 
such as defective inventory lying at the depots. 
The warranty claims may not exactly match the 
historical warranty percentage, so such estimates 
are reviewed annually for any material changes in 
assumptions and likelihood of occurrence. The 
assumptions are consistent with prior years. (Refer 
Note 20)
	
f)	
Provision for expected credit losses (ECL) of trade 
receivables and contract assets 
	
	
The Group uses a provision matrix to calculate 
ECLs for trade receivables and contract assets. 
The provision rates are based on days past due 
for groupings of various customer segments that 
have similar loss patterns (i.e., by geography, 
product type, customer type and rating, and 
coverage by letters of credit and other forms of 
credit insurance). The provision matrix is initially 
based on the Group’s historical observed default 
rates. The Group will calibrate the matrix to adjust 
the historical credit loss experience with forward-
looking information. At every reporting date, the 
historical observed default rates are updated and 
changes in the forward-looking estimates are 
analysed. 
	
	
The assessment of the correlation between 
historical observed default rates, forecast economic 
conditions and ECLs is a material estimate. 
The amount of ECLs is sensitive to changes 
in circumstances and of forecast economic 
conditions. The Group’s historical credit loss 
experience and forecast of economic conditions 
may also not be representative of customer’s 
actual default in the future. The information about 
the ECLs on the Group’s trade receivables and 
contract assets is disclosed in Note 32(10)”
	
g)	
Property, Plant and Equipment and intangible 
assets
	
	
Property, Plant and Equipment represent material 
portion of the asset base of the Group. The charge 
in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after 
determining an estimate of assets expected useful 
life and expected value at the end of its useful 
Havells India Limited
294
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
life. The useful life and residual value of Group’s 
assets are determined by Management at the 
time asset is acquired and reviewed periodically 
including at the end of each year. The useful life is 
based on historical experience with similar assets, 
in anticipation of future events, which may have 
impact on their life such as change in technology.
	
	
Other accounting policy
	
	
This note provides a list of other accounting 
policies adopted in the preparation of these 
consolidated financial statements to the extent 
they have not already been disclosed in the 
other notes above. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented, 
unless otherwise stated.
2.12	Description
	
a)	
Rounding Off
	
	
These Consolidated financial statements are 
presented in ` and all values are rounded to the 
nearest crore (` 0,000,000), except when otherwise 
indicated.
	
b)	
Current versus non-current classification
	
	
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the 
balance sheet based on current/non- current 
classification. An asset is treated as current 
when it is:
	
	
-	
Expected to be realized or intended to be 
sold or consumed in normal operating cycle
	
	
-	
Held primarily for purpose of trading
	
	
-	
Expected to be realized within twelve months 
after the reporting period, or
	
	
-	
cash or cash equivalent unless restricted 
from being exchanged or used to settle a 
liability for at least twelve months after the 
reporting period
	
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
	
A liability is current when:
	
	
-	
It is expected to be settled in normal 
operating cycle
	
	
-	
It is held primarily for purpose of trading
	
	
-	
It is due to be settled within twelve months 
after the reporting period, or
	
	
-	
There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period
	
	
All other liabilities are classified as non current.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are 
classified as non- current assets and liabilities.
	
	
The operating cycle is the time between the 
acquisition of assets for processing and their 
realization in cash and cash equivalents. the Group 
has identified twelve months as its operating cycle.
	
c)	
Property Plant and Equipment
	
	
The historical cost comprises of purchase price, 
taxes, duties, freight and other incidental expenses 
directly attributable and related to acquisition and 
installation of the concerned assets and are further 
adjusted by the amount of input tax credit availed 
wherever applicable.Such cost includes the cost 
of replacing part of the plant and equipment 
and borrowing costs for long-term construction 
projects if the recognition criteria are met. When 
material parts of plant and equipment are required 
to be replaced at intervals, the Group depreciates 
them separately based on their specific useful lives. 
Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, 
its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of 
the plant and equipment as a replacement if the 
recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair 
and maintenance costs are recognised in profit or 
loss as incurred. The present value of the expected 
cost for the decommissioning of an asset after its 
use is included in the cost of the respective asset if 
the recognition criteria for a provision are met. 
	
	
Subsequent costs are included in asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as separate assets, as 
appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefit associated with the item will flow 
to the Group and the cost of item can be measured 
reliably. 
	
	
An item of property, plant and equipment and any 
material part initially recognised is derecognized 
upon disposal or when no future economic 
benefits are expected from its use or disposal. 
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the 
asset (calculated as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset) is included in the income statement when 
the asset is derecognised.
	
	
Capital work- in- progress includes cost of property, 
plant and equipment under installation / under 
development as at the balance sheet date. Capital 
work in progress is stated at cost, net of accumulated 
impairment loss, if any.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
295
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted 
prospectively, if appropriate.
	
d)	
Intangible assets
	
	
Separately acquired intangible assets
	
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured 
on initial recognition at cost. Cost of intangible assets 
acquired in business combination is their fair value at 
the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, 
intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortization and accumulated impairment losses, 
if any. Cost comprises the purchase price and any 
attributable cost of bringing the asset to its working 
condition for its intended use.
	
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed 
as either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with 
finite lives are amortized over their useful lives 
and assessed for impairment whenever there 
is an indication that the intangible asset may 
be impaired. The amortization period and the 
amortization method for an intangible asset with 
a finite useful life is reviewed at least at the end 
of each reporting period. Changes in the expected 
useful life or the expected pattern of consumption 
of future economic benefits embodied in the asset 
is accounted for by changing the amortization 
period or method, as appropriate, and are 
treated as changes in accounting estimates. The 
amortization expense on intangible assets with 
finite lives is recognized in the statement of profit 
and loss.
	
	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not 
amortized, but are tested for impairment annually, 
either individually or at the cash-generating unit 
level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed 
annually to determine whether the indefinite life 
continues to be supportable. If not, the change 
in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on 
a prospective basis. The Group has assessed 
indefinite life for such brand considering the 
expected usage, expected investment on brand, 
business forecast and challenges to establish a 
premium electronic segment. These are carried at 
historical cost and tested for impairment annually.
	
	
Research and development cost
	
	
Research costs are expensed as incurred. 
Development expenditure incurred on an individual 
project is recognized as an intangible asset when 
the Group can demonstrate all the following:
	
	
i)	
The technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for 
use or sale;
	
	
ii)	
Its intention to complete the asset;
	
	
iii)	
Its ability to use or sale the asset;
	
	
iv)	
How the asset will generate future economic 
benefits;
	
	
v)	
The availability of adequate resources to 
complete the development and to use or 
sale the asset; and
	
	
vi)	
The ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during 
development.
	
	
Following the initial recognition of the development 
expenditure as an asset, the cost model is applied 
requiring the asset to be carried at cost less any 
accumulated 
amortization 
and 
accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortization of the asset 
begins when development is complete and the 
asset is available for use. It is amortized on straight 
line basis over the estimated useful life and is 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
During the period of development, the asset is 
tested for impairment annually.
	
e)	
Impairment of non- financial assets
	
	
For assets excluding goodwill and intangible assets 
having indefinite life, an assessment is made at 
each reporting date to determine whether there is 
an indication that previously recognised impairment 
losses no longer exist or have decreased. If such 
indication exists, the Group estimates the asset’s 
or CGU’s recoverable amount. A previously 
recognised impairment loss is reversed only if 
there has been a change in the assumptions used 
to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since 
the last impairment loss was recognised. The 
reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of 
the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, 
nor exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation, had no 
impairment loss been recognised for the asset 
in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss unless the asset is 
carried at a revalued amount, in which case, the 
reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
	
f)	
Financial instruments 
	
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity.
Havells India Limited
296
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
Initial recognition measurement
	
	
In order for a financial asset to be classified and 
measured at amortised cost or fair value through 
OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are 
‘solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI)’ 
on the principal amount outstanding. This 
assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is 
performed at an instrument level. Financial assets 
with cash flows that are not SPPI are classified 
and measured at fair value through profit or loss, 
irrespective of the business model.
	
	
The Group’s business model for managing financial 
assets refers to how it manages its financial assets 
in order to generate cash flows. The business 
model determines whether cash flows will result 
from collecting contractual cash flows, selling the 
financial assets, or both.
	
	
Financial assets classified and measured at 
amortised cost are held within a business model 
with the objective to hold financial assets in order 
to collect contractual cash flows while financial 
assets classified and measured at fair value 
through OCI are held within a business model with 
the objective of both holding to collect contractual 
cash flows and selling.”
	
	
Financial assets at amortised cost (debt 
instruments)
	
	
After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortized cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are 
an integral part of EIR. EIR is the rate that exactly 
discounts the estimated future cash receipts over 
the expected life of the financial instrument or a 
shorter period, where appropriate, to the gross 
carrying amount of the financial asset. When 
calculating the effective interest rate, the Group 
estimates the expected cash flows by considering 
all the contractual terms of the financial instrument 
but does not consider the expected credit losses. 
The EIR amortization is included in other income in 
profit or loss. The losses arising from impairment 
are recognized in the profit or loss. This category 
generally applies to trade and other receivables.
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through OCI 
(FVTOCI) (debt instruments)
	
	
Debt instrument included within the FVTOCI 
category are measured initially as well as at each 
reporting date at fair value. Fair value movements 
are recognized in the other comprehensive income 
(OCI), except for the recognition of interest income, 
impairment gains or losses and foreign exchange 
gains or losses which are recognized in statement 
of profit and loss and computed in the same manner 
as for financial assets measured at amortised cost. 
The remaining fair value changes are recognised in 
OCI. Upon derecognition, the cumulative fair value 
changes recognised in OCI is reclassified from the 
equity to profit or loss.
	
	
Financial assets designated at fair value through 
OCI (equity instruments)
	
	
Upon initial recognition, the Group can elect to 
classify irrevocably its equity investments as equity 
instruments designated at fair value through OCI 
when they meet the definition of equity under 
Ind AS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 
and are not held for trading. The classification is 
determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis. 
Equity instruments which are held for trading 
and contingent consideration recognised by an 
acquirer in a business combination to which Ind 
AS103 applies are classified as at FVTPL.
	
	
Gains and losses on these financial assets are 
never recycled to profit or loss. Dividends are 
recognised as other income in the statement of 
profit and loss when the right of payment has been 
established, except when the Group benefits from 
such proceeds as a recovery of part of the cost of 
the financial asset, in which case, such gains are 
recorded in OCI. Equity instruments designated at 
fair value through OCI are not subject to impairment 
assessment. 
	
	
Derecognition
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a 
financial asset or part of a Group of similar financial 
assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. removed 
from the Group’s statement of financial position) 
when:
	
	
-	
The rights to receive cash flows from the 
asset have expired, or
	
	
-	
the Group has transferred its rights to receive 
cash flows from the asset or has assumed 
an obligation to pay the received cash flows 
in full without material delay to a third party 
under a “pass through” arrangement and 
either;
	
	
(a)	
the Group has transferred substantially all 
the risks and rewards of the asset, or
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
297
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
(b)	
the Group has neither transferred nor retained 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset, but has transferred control of the 
asset.
	
	
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive 
cash flows from an asset or has entered into a 
pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if and to 
what extent it has retained the risks and rewards 
of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor 
retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the 
Group continues to recognise the transferred asset 
to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement. 
In that case, the Group also recognises an 
associated liability. The transferred asset and the 
associated liability are measured on a basis that 
reflects the rights and obligations that the Group 
has retained.
	
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a 
guarantee over the transferred asset is measured 
at the lower of the original carrying amount of the 
asset and the maximum amount of consideration 
that the group could be required to repay.
	
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
In accordance with IND AS 109, the Group 
applies expected credit losses (ECL) model for 
measurement and recognition of impairment loss 
on the following financial asset and credit risk 
exposure
	
	
-	
Financial assets measured at amortized 
cost;
	
	
-	
Financial assets measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income(FVTOCI);
	
	
ECLs are based on the difference between the 
contractual cash flows due in accordance with 
the contract and all the cash flows that the Group 
expects to receive, discounted at an approximation 
of the original effective interest rate. The expected 
cash flows will include cash flows from the sale of 
collateral held or other credit enhancements that 
are integral to the contractual terms.
	
	
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) 
recognized during the period is recognized as 
income/ expense in the statement of profit and 
loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other 
expenses’ in the statement of profit and loss. The 
balance sheet presentation for various financial 
instruments is described below:
	
	
(a)	
Financial assets measured as at amortised 
cost: ECL is presented as an allowance, 
i.e., as an integral part of the measurement 
of those assets in the balance sheet. The 
allowance reduces the net carrying amount. 
Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the 
group does not reduce impairment allowance 
from the gross carrying amount.
	
	
(b)	
Loan commitments and financial guarantee 
contracts: ECL is presented as a provision in 
the balance sheet, i.e. as a liability.
	
	
(c)	
Debt instruments measured at FVTOCI: For 
debt instruments measured at FVTOCI, the 
expected credit losses do not reduce the 
carrying amount in the balance sheet, which 
remains at fair value. Instead, an amount 
equal to the allowance that would arise if the 
asset was measured at amortised cost is 
recognised in other comprehensive income 
as the accumulated impairment amount.
	
g)	
Financial liabilities:
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
Financial liabilities are classified at initial recognition 
as financial liabilities at fair value through profit 
or loss, loans and borrowings, and payables, 
net of directly attributable transaction costs. All 
financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair 
value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, net of directly attributable transaction 
costs. The Group financial liabilities include loans 
and borrowings, trade payables, trade deposits, 
retention money, liabilities towards services, sales 
incentive and other payables.
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, 
financial liabilities are classified in two categories: 
	
	
(i)	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit 
or loss 
	
	
(ii)	
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (loans 
and borrowings)
	
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit 
or loss
	
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss include financial liabilities held for trading and 
financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition 
as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial 
liabilities are classified as held for trading if they 
are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the 
Havells India Limited
298
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
near term. This category also includes derivative 
financial instruments entered into by the Group 
that are not designated as hedging instruments in 
hedge relationship as defined by Ind AS 109. The 
separated embedded derivate are also classified 
as held for trading unless they are designated as 
effective hedging instruments.
	
	
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Financial 
liabilities 
designated 
upon 
initial 
recognition at fair value through profit or loss 
are designated as such at the initial date of 
recognition, and only if the criteria in IND AS 109 
are satisfied. For liabilities designated as FVTPL, 
fair value gains/ losses attributable to changes 
in own credit risk are recognized in OCI. These 
gains/ loss are not subsequently transferred to 
profit and loss. However, the Group may transfer 
the cumulative gain or loss within equity. All other 
changes in fair value of such liability are recognized 
in the statement of profit or loss. the Group has 
not designated any financial liability as at fair value 
through profit and loss.
	
	
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (Loans and 
borrowings)
	
	
After initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings 
are subsequently measured at amortized cost using 
the Effective interest rate method. Gains and losses 
are recognized in profit or loss when the liabilities 
are derecognised as well as through the Effective 
interest rate amortization process. Amortized cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount 
or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the Effective interest rate. 
The Effective interest rate amortization is included 
as finance costs in the statement of profit and loss. 
	
	
Trade Payables
	
	
These amounts represents liabilities for goods and 
services provided to the Group prior to the end of 
financial year which are unpaid. The amounts are 
unsecured and are usually paid per the term of 
contract with suppliers. Trade and other payables 
are presented as current liabilities unless payment 
is not due within 12 months after the reporting 
period. They are recognized initially at fair value 
and subsequently measured at amortized cost 
using Effective interest rate method.
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts 
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group 
are those contracts that require a payment to be 
made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs 
because the specified debtor fails to make a 
payment when due in accordance with the terms 
of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts 
are recognized initially as a liability at fair value, 
adjusted for transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. 
Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher 
of the amount of loss allowance determined as per 
impairment requirements of IND AS 109 and the 
amount recognized less cumulative amortization.
	
	
Derecognition
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, 
such an exchange or modification is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
	
Financials assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount is reported in the balance 
sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right 
to offset the recognized amounts and there is an 
intention to settle on a net basis, to realize the 
assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
	
	
Reclassification of financial assets/ financial 
liabilities
	
	
The Group determines classification of financial 
assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial 
recognition, no reclassification is made for financial 
assets which are equity instruments and financial 
liabilities. For financial assets which are debt 
instruments, a reclassification is made only if there 
is a change in the business model for managing 
those assets. Changes to the business model are 
expected to be infrequent. The Group’s senior 
management determines change in the business 
model as a result of external or internal changes 
which are material to the Group’s operations. Such 
changes are evident to external parties. A change 
in the business model occurs when the Group 
either begins or ceases to perform an activity that 
is material to its operations. If the Group reclassifies 
financial assets, it applies the reclassification 
prospectively from the reclassification date which 
is the first day of the immediately next reporting 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
299
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
period following the change in business model. The 
Group does not restate any previously recognised 
gains, losses (including impairment gains or losses) 
or interest.
	
h)	
Investment in Subsidiaries
	
	
The investment in subsidiary are carried at cost 
as per IND AS 27. The Group regardless of the 
nature of its involvement with an entity (the 
investee), determines whether it is a parent by 
assessing whether it controls the investee. The 
Group controls an investee when it is exposed, or 
has rights, to variable returns from its involvement 
with the investee and has the ability to affect those 
returns through its power over the investee. Thus, 
the Group controls an investee if and only if it has 
all the following:
	
	
(a)	
power over the investee;
	
	
(b)	
exposure, or rights, to variable returns from 
its involvement with the investee and
	
	
(c)	
the ability to use its power over the investee 
to affect the amount of the returns.
	
	
Investments are accounted in accordance with IND 
AS 105 when they are classified as held for sale. 
On disposal of investment, the difference between 
its carrying amount and net disposal proceeds is 
charged or credited to the statement of profit and loss
	
i)	
Inventory
	
	
Basis of valuation:
	
	
Inventories other than scrap materials are valued 
at lower of cost and net realizable value after 
providing cost of obsolescence, if any. However, 
materials and other items held for use in the 
production of inventories are not written down 
below cost if the finished products in which they 
will be incorporated are expected to be sold at 
or above cost. The comparison of cost and net 
realizable value is made on an item-by-item basis.
	
	
Inventory of scrap materials have been valued at 
net realizable value.
	
	
Method of Valuation:
	
	
Cost of raw materials has been determined by 
using moving weighted average cost method and 
comprises all costs of purchase, duties, taxes 
(other than those subsequently recoverable from 
tax authorities) and all other costs incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition.
	
	
Cost of finished goods and work-in-progress 
includes direct labour and an appropriate share 
of fixed and variable production overheads. Fixed 
production overheads are allocated on the basis 
of normal capacity of production facilities. Cost is 
determined on moving weighted average basis.
	
	
Cost of traded goods has been determined by 
using moving weighted average cost method and 
comprises all costs of purchase, duties, taxes 
(other than those subsequently recoverable from 
tax authorities) and all other costs incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition.
	
j)	
Non-current assets held for sale
	
	
The Group classifies non-current assets as held 
for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered 
principally through a sale rather than through 
continuing use and the sale is considered highly 
probable. Such non-current assets classified as 
held for sale are measured at the lower of their 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
Any expected loss is recognized immediately in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
The criteria for held for sale classification is 
regarded as met only when the assets is available 
for immediate sale in its present condition, subject 
only to terms that are usual and customary for 
sales of such assets, its sale is highly probable; 
and it will genuinely be sold. The Group treats sale 
of the asset to be highly probable when:
	
	
i)	
The appropriate level of management is 
committed to a plan to sell the asset
	
	
ii)	
An active programme to locate a buyer 
and complete the plan has been initiated (if 
applicable)
	
	
iii)	
The asset is being actively marketed for sale 
at a price that is reasonable in relation to its 
current fair value
	
	
iv)	
The sale is expected to qualify for recognition 
as a completed sale within one year from the 
date of classification, and
	
	
v)	
Actions required to complete the plan 
indicate that it is unlikely that material 
changes to the plan will be made or that the 
plan will be withdrawn.
	
	
The criteria for held for sale classification is 
regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and the asset is available for immediate 
Havells India Limited
300
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
sale in its present condition and the assets must 
have actively marketed for sale at a price that is 
reasonable in relation to its current fair value. Actions 
required to complete the sale should indicate that it 
is unlikely that material changes to the plan to sale 
these assets will be made. Management must be 
committed to the sale, which should be expected 
to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within 
one year from the date of classification.
	
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets once classified as held for sale are not 
depreciated or amortized. Assets and liabilities 
classified as held for sale are presented separately 
as current items in the balance sheet.
	
k)	
Income Tax
	
	
The income tax expense or credit for the period 
is the tax payable on the current period’s taxable 
income based on the applicable income tax rate 
adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and 
liabilities attributable to temporary differences and 
to unused tax losses. Income Tax expense for the 
year comprises of current tax and deferred tax.
	
	
Current income tax
	
	
Current income tax, assets and liabilities are 
measured at the amount expected to be paid 
to or recovered from the taxation authorities in 
accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the 
Income Computation and Disclosure Standards 
(ICDS) enacted in India by using tax rates and the 
tax laws that are enacted at the reporting date. 
	
	
The current income tax charge is calculated on 
the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively 
enacted at the end of the reporting period in the 
countries where the Group operate and generate 
taxable 
income. 
Management 
periodically 
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect 
to situations in which applicable tax regulation is 
subject to interpretation and considers whether it 
is probable that a taxation authority will accept an 
uncertain tax treatment. The group measures its tax 
balances either based on the most likely amount or 
the expected value, depending on which method 
provides a better prediction of the resolution of the 
uncertainty.
	
	
Current income tax relating to item recognized 
outside the statement of profit and loss is 
recognized outside profit or loss (either in other 
comprehensive income or equity).Current tax items 
are recognized in correlation to the underlying 
transactions either in OCI or directly in equity.
	
	
Deferred Tax
	
	
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance 
sheet method on temporary differences arising 
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the financial statements. 
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised 
if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill. 
	
	
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences, except:
	
	
i)	
When the deferred tax liability arises from 
the initial recognition of goodwill or an 
asset or liability in a transaction that is not a 
business combination and, at the time of the 
transaction, affects neither the accounting 
profit nor taxable profit or loss
	
	
ii)	
In respect of taxable temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint ventures, 
when the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary differences can be controlled and 
it is probable that the temporary differences 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future
	
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, the carry forward of unused 
tax credits and any unused tax losses. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, and 
the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused 
tax losses can be utilised, except:
	
	
When the deferred tax asset relating to the 
deductible temporary difference arises from 
the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
	
	
In respect of deductible temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred 
tax assets are recognised only to the extent that 
it is probable that the temporary differences will 
reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit 
will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
	
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at each reporting date and reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
301
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilized. 
Unrecognized deferred tax assets are re-assessed 
at each reporting date and are recognized to the 
extent that it has become probable that future 
taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to 
be recovered.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when 
the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on 
tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
	
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognized outside 
the statement of profit and loss is recognized 
outside the statement of profit and loss (either 
in other comprehensive income or in equity). 
Deferred tax items are recognized in correlation to 
the underlying transaction either in OCI or direct in 
equity.
	
	
Tax benefits acquired as part of a business 
combination, but not satisfying the criteria for 
separate recognition at that date, are recognised 
subsequently if new information about facts and 
circumstances change. Acquired deferred tax 
benefits recognised within the measurement 
period reduce goodwill related to that acquisition 
if they result from new information obtained about 
facts and circumstances existing at the acquisition 
date. If the carrying amount of goodwill is zero, any 
remaining deferred tax benefits are recognised in 
OCI/ capital reserve depending on the principle 
explained for bargain purchase gains. All other 
acquired tax benefits realized are recognised in 
profit or loss.
	
l)	
Other Operating Revenues
	
	
(a)	
Export benefit
	
	
	
Revenue from export benefits arising from 
duty drawback scheme, Remission of duties 
and taxes on exported product scheme are 
recognised on export of goods in accordance 
with their respective underlying scheme at fair 
value of consideration received or receivable.
	
	
(b)	
Government Grants 
	
	
	
Government Grants are recognized at their 
fair value when there is reasonable assurance 
that the grant will be received and all the 
attached conditions will be complied with.
	
	
	
When the grant relates to an expense item, 
it is recognized as income on a systematic 
basis over the periods that the related costs, 
for which it is intended to compensate, are 
expensed. Government grant related to 
the non-monetary asset are recognised at 
nominal value and presented by deducting 
the same from carrying amount of related 
asset and the grant is then recognised 
in profit or loss over the useful life of the 
depreciable asset by way of a reduced 
depreciation charge.
	
m)	
Retirement and other employee benefits
	
	
(i)	
Short-term obligations
	
	
	
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including 
non monetary benefits that are expected to 
be settled wholly within twelve months after 
the end of the period in which the employees 
render the related service are recognized in 
respect of employee service upto the end 
of the reporting period and are measured 
at the amount expected to be paid when 
the liabilities are settled. The liabilities are 
presented as current employee benefit 
obligations in the balance sheet.
	
	
(ii)	
Post employment
	
	
a)	
Gratuity
	
	
	
The Employee’s Gratuity Fund Scheme, 
which is defined benefit plan, is managed 
by Trust with its investments maintained 
with Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co.Ltd. 
The liabilities with respect to Gratuity Plan 
are determined by actuarial valuation on 
projected unit credit method on the balance 
sheet date, based upon which the Group 
contributes to the Gratuity Scheme. The 
difference, if any, between the actuarial 
valuation of the gratuity of employees at 
the year end and the balance of funds is 
provided for as assets/ (liability) in the books. 
Net interest is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net defined benefit 
liability or asset. The Group recognizes the 
following changes in the net defined benefit 
obligation under Employee benefit expense 
in statement of profit or loss:
	
	
	
a)	
Service 
costs 
comprising 
current 
service costs, past-service costs, 
gains and losses on curtailments and 
non-routine settlements
	
	
	
b)	
Net interest expense or income
	
	
	
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, 
Havells India Limited
302
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
excluding amounts included in net interest on 
the net defined benefit liability and the return on 
plan assets (excluding amounts included in net 
interest on the net defined benefit liability), are 
recognized immediately in the Balance Sheet 
with a corresponding debit or credit to retained 
earnings 
through 
other 
comprehensive 
income in the period in which they occur. 
Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit 
or loss in subsequent periods.
	
	
b)	
Provident fund
	
	
	
Retirement benefit in the form of provident 
fund is a defined contribution scheme. 
the Group has no obligation, other than 
the contribution payable to the provident 
fund. The Group recognizes contribution 
payable through provident fund scheme as 
an expense, when an employee renders 
the related services. If the contribution 
payable to scheme for service received 
before the balance sheet date exceeds the 
contribution already paid, the deficit payable 
to the scheme is recognized as liability after 
deducting the contribution already paid. If 
the contribution already paid exceeds the 
contribution due for services received before 
the balance sheet date, then excesses 
recognized as an asset to the extent that 
the prepayment will lead to, for example, a 
reduction in future payment or a cash refund. 
	
	
(iii)	
Other employee benefits
	
	
	
Employees (including senior executives) of 
the Group receive remuneration in the form of 
share based payment transactions, whereby 
employees render services as consideration 
for equity instruments. In accordance 
with the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) 
Regulations, 2014 and the Ind-AS 102 
Share based payments, the fair value of 
options granted under the Havells Long 
Term cumulative expense recognized for 
equity-settled transactions at each reporting 
date until the vesting date reflects the extent 
to which the vesting period has expired and 
the Group’s best estimate of the number of 
equity instruments that will ultimately vest. 
The expense or credit recognized in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss for a period 
represents the movement in cumulative 
expense recognized as at the beginning 
and end of that period and is recognized in 
employee benefits expense.
	
	
	
Where the terms of an equity-settled 
transaction award are modified, the minimum 
expense recognized is the expense as if the 
terms had not been modified, if the original 
terms of the award are met. An additional 
expense is recognized for any modification 
that increases the total intrinsic value of 
the share-based payment transaction, or 
is otherwise beneficial to the employee 
as measured at the date of modification. 
The Employee stock option scheme is 
administered through Havells Employee 
Welfare Trust.
	
	
	
The Group provides long term incentive plan 
to employees via equity settled share based 
payments as enumerated below:
	
	
(a)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan:   
The fair value of options granted under this 
option plan is recognised as an employee 
benefit expense with corresponding increase 
in equity in accordance with recognition and 
measurement principles as prescribed in Ind 
AS 102 Share Based Payments when grant 
is made. The total expense is recognised over 
the vesting period, which is the period over 
which all of the specified vesting conditions 
are to be satisfied. At end of the reporting 
period, the entity revises its estimates of the 
number of options that are expected to vest 
based on the non-market vesting and service 
conditions. It recognizes the impact of the 
revision to original estimates, if any, in profit or 
loss, with corresponding adjustment to equity.
	
	
(b)	
Havells Employees Long term Incentive 
plan : These are in nature of employee 
benefit wherein employees (including senior 
executives) of the Group purchase shares 
of the Group at fair value on the grant cum 
allotment date and receives remuneration in 
the form of ex-gratia equivalent to predefined 
percentage of purchase price paid by 
designated employee subject to serving 
of relevant period of service after the grant 
cum allotment date. These are recognised at 
fair value of shares granted and allotted as 
employee benefit expense over the period of 
employee serving relevant period.
	
	
c)	
Leave Obligation
	
	
	
Leave obligations: The Group has liabilities 
for earned leave that are not expected to 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
303
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
be settled wholly within 12 months after the 
end of the period in which the employees 
render the related service. These obligations 
are therefore measured as the present value 
of expected future payments to be made in 
respect of services provided by employees 
up to the end of the reporting period using 
the projected unit credit method. The benefits 
are discounted using the appropriate market 
yields at the end of the reporting period that 
have terms approximating to the terms of 
the related obligation. Remeasurements 
as a result of experience adjustments 
and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in profit or loss.
	
	
	
The Group does not have an unconditional 
right to defer settlement for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period, however, 
based on past experience, the Group does 
not expect all employees to avail the full 
amount of accrued leave or require payment 
of such leave within the next 12 months.
	
n)	
Leases
	
	
The Group assesses at contract inception whether 
a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the 
contract conveys the right to control the use of an 
identified asset for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration.
	
	
Right-of-use assets (ROU)
	
	
The Group recognises right-of-use assets at the 
commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the 
underlying asset is available for use). Right-of-use 
assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for 
any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-
of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities 
recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease 
payments made at or before the commencement date 
less any lease incentives received.
	
	
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the 
Group at the end of the lease term or the cost reflects 
the exercise of a purchase option, depreciation 
is calculated using the estimated useful life of the 
asset. The right-of-use assets are also subject to 
impairment. Refer to the accounting policies in 
section ‘Impairment of non-financial assets’.
	
	
Lease Liabilities
	
	
At the commencement date of the lease, the 
Group recognises lease liabilities measured at the 
present value of lease payments to be made over 
the lease term. The lease payments include fixed 
payments (including in substance fixed payments) 
less any lease incentives receivable, variable lease 
payments that depend on an index or a rate, and 
amounts expected to be paid under residual value 
guarantees. The lease payments also include the 
exercise price of a purchase option reasonably 
certain to be exercised by the Group and payments 
of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease 
term reflects the Group exercising the option to 
terminate. Variable lease payments that do not 
depend on an index or a rate are recognised as 
expenses (unless they are incurred to produce 
inventories) in the period in which the event or 
condition that triggers the payment occurs.
	
	
After the commencement date, the amount of lease 
liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of 
interest and reduced for the lease payments made. 
In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities 
is remeasured if there is a modification, a change 
in the lease term, a change in the lease payments 
(e.g., changes to future payments resulting from a 
change in an index or rate used to determine such 
lease payments) or a change in the assessment of 
an option to purchase the underlying asset.
	
	
Lease payments are allocated between principal 
and finance cost. The finance cost is charged 
to profit or loss over the lease period so as to 
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability for each period. 
Variable lease payments that depend on sales are 
recognised in profit or loss in the period in which 
the condition that triggers those payments occurs.
	
	
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price 
in the ordinary course of business, less estimated 
costs of completion and estimated costs necessary 
to make the sale.
	
o)	
Segment reporting
	
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided 
to the decision making authority. The Board of 
directors monitors the operating results of all 
product segments separately for the purpose of 
making decisions about resource allocation and 
performance assessment. 
	
p)	
Earnings Per Share
	
	
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing 
the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders by the weighted average 
Havells India Limited
304
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
number of equity shares outstanding during the 
period. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period is adjusted 
for events such as bonus issue, bonus element in 
a rights issue, share split, and reverse share split 
(consolidation of shares) if any that have changed 
the number of equity shares outstanding, without a 
corresponding change in resources.
	
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per 
share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders and the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the period 
are adjusted for the effect of all potentially dilutive 
equity shares. 
	
q)	
Borrowing Costs
	
	
Borrowing cost includes interest and other costs 
incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds 
and charged to Statement of Profit & Loss on 
the basis of effective interest rate (EIR) method. 
Borrowing cost also includes exchange differences 
to the extent regarded as an adjustment to the 
borrowing cost.
	
	
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of an 
asset that necessarily takes a substantial period 
of time to get ready for its intended use or sale 
are capitalized as part of the cost of the respective 
asset. All other borrowing costs are recognized as 
expense in the period in which they occur.
	
r)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet 
comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-
term deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less, that are readily convertible to a 
known amount of cash and subject to an inmaterial 
risk of changes in value.
	
	
For the purpose of presentation in the statement 
of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes 
cash on hand, deposit held at call with financial 
institutions, other short - term, highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months 
or less that are readily convertible to known amounts 
of cash and which are subject to an inmaterial risk 
of changes in value, and bank overdrafts. Bank 
overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current 
liabilities in the balance sheet.
	
s)	
Foreign currency translation
	
(i)	
Functional and presentation currency
	
	
Items included in the financial statements are 
measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates 
(‘the functional currency’). The Group’s financial 
statements are presented in Indian rupee (`) which 
is also the Group’s functional and presentation 
currency.
	
(ii)	
Transactions and balances
	
	
Foreign currency transactions are translated into 
the functional currency using the exchange rate 
prevailing at the date of the transaction. Foreign 
exchange gains and losses resulting from the 
settlement of such transaction and from the 
translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at year end 
exchange rate are generally recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. 
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign 
currency are translated using the exchange rates at the 
date when the fair value is determined.
	
(iii)	
Exchange differences
	
	
Exchange differences arising on settlement or 
translation of monetary items are recognized as 
income or expense in the period in which they arise 
with the exception of exchange differences on gain 
or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items 
measured at fair value which is treated in line with 
the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in 
fair value of the item (i.e., translation differences on 
items whose fair value gain or loss is recognized in 
OCI or profit or loss are also recognized in OCI or 
profit or loss, respectively).
	
t)	
Provisions and Contingent Liabilities 
	
	
Provisions (including reimbursement)
	
	
A provision is recognized when the Group has 
a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a 
result of past event, it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. These estimates are reviewed at each 
reporting date and adjusted to reflect the current 
best estimates. If the effect of the time value of 
money is material, provisions are discounted 
using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision 
due to the passage of time is recognized as a 
finance cost.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
305
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
Insurance claims are accounted for on the basis 
of claims admitted / expected to be admitted and 
to the extent that the amount recoverable can be 
measured reliably and realisation in respect thereof 
is virtually certain.
	
	
Contingent liabilities
	
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events whose existence will be 
confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of 
one or more uncertain future events beyond the 
control of the Group or a present obligation that 
is not recognized because it is not probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle 
the obligation. A contingent liability also arises 
in extremely rare cases, where there is a liability 
that cannot be recognized because it cannot be 
measured reliably. the Group does not recognize 
a contingent liability but discloses its existence in 
the financial statements unless the probability of 
outflow of resources is remote.
	
	
Provisions, contingent liabilities, contingent assets 
and commitments are reviewed at each balance 
sheet date.
	
u)	
Fair value measurement
	
	
The Group measures financial instruments at fair 
value at each balance sheet date.
	
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an ordinary 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement 
is based on the presumption that the transaction 
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place 
either:
	
	
(i)	
In the principal market for asset or liability, or
	
	
(ii)	
In the absence of a principal market, in the 
most advantageous market for the asset or 
liability.
	
	
The principal or the most advantageous market 
must be accessible by the Group.
	
	
The fair value of an asset or liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants 
would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their 
economic best interest.
	
	
A fair value measurement of a non- financial asset 
takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
	
The Group uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs.
	
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the financial statements 
are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level 
input that is material to the fair value measurement 
as a whole:
	
	
Level 1- Quoted(unadjusted) market prices in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities
	
	
Level 2- Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is material to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable
	
	
Level 3- Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is material to the fair value 
measurement is unobservable
	
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognized in 
the financial statements on a recurring basis, the 
Group determines whether transfers have occurred 
between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing 
categorization (based on the lowest level input that 
is material to fair value measurement as a whole) at 
the end of each reporting period.
	
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group 
has determined classes of assets and liabilities on 
the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of 
the asset or liability and the level of the fair value 
hierarchy as explained above.
	
v)	
Exceptional items
	
	
The Group recognises exceptional item when items of 
income and expenses within Statement of Profit and 
Loss from ordinary activities are of such size, nature 
or incidence that their disclosure is relevant to explain 
the performance of the enterprise for the period.
	
w)	
Dividend Distributions
	
	
The Group recognizes a liability to make the 
payment of dividend to owners of equity, when the 
distribution is authorised and the distribution is no 
longer at the discretion of the Group. As per the 
corporate laws in India, a distribution is authorised 
when it is approved by the shareholders. A 
corresponding amount is recognised directly in 
equity.
Havells India Limited
306
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
3.	
Property, plant and equipment
(` in crores)
Particulars
Freehold 
Land
Buildings 
Leasehold 
Improvements
Plant and 
Machinery
Moulds 
and Dies
Furniture 
and 
fixtures
Vehicles
R & D 
Equipment's
Office 
Equipment's
Electrical 
Installations
Right of use asset 
 Total 
Capital 
Work in 
progress
 Grand 
Total 
Leasehold 
Land
Leasehold 
Buildings
Gross carrying amount 
(at cost)
At April 01, 2023
27.77 
875.50 
 14.05  1,147.65 
456.41 
80.29 
21.33 
54.64 
141.56 
55.67 
231.49 
 345.07 
3,451.44 
163.42 3,614.86 
Additions
-
158.93 
0.04 
184.66 
92.11 
32.39 
1.95 
20.18 
54.51 
19.98 
0.30 
133.72 
 698.76 
660.85 1,359.62 
Recognition of grant related 
to assets {Refer note 3 (iv)}
-
(0.02)
 -
 (1.98)
(0.81)
(0.26)
-
-
(0.13)
-
-
(3.21)
 (3.21)
Disposals/Adjustments 
-
-
 -
(11.35)
(3.40)
(1.13)
(2.38)
(0.32)
 (10.13)
(0.85)
(0.18)
 (29.74)
 (527.36)
(557.10)
At March 31, 2024
27.77  1,034.41 
 14.09  1,318.98 
544.31 
111.29 
20.90 
74.50 
185.81 
74.80 
231.61 
 478.79 
4,117.26 
296.91 4,414.17 
Additions
-
150.58 
6.33 
417.81 
131.46 
16.82 
0.35 
26.54 
38.59 
32.00 
145.39 
 108.61 
1,074.48 
612.11 1,686.59 
Recognition of grant  
related to assets 
-
-
 -
-
-
 -
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 -
-
Disposals/adjustments *
(15.89)
(5.87)
 (0.01)
(12.43)
(17.57)
(1.26)
(0.04)
(2.88)
 (14.20)
(0.01)
-
(38.92)
(109.08)
 (792.55)
(901.63)
At March 31, 2025
11.88  1,179.12 
 20.41  1,724.36 
658.20 
126.85 
21.21 
98.16 
210.20 
106.79 
377.00 
 548.48 
5,082.66 
116.47 5,199.13 
Accumulated Depreciation
At April 01, 2023
-
205.82 
9.28 
455.16 
217.65 
30.70 
7.58 
27.96 
97.27 
27.63 
8.78 
 135.74 
1,223.57 
 -
1,223.57 
Charge for the year
-
35.30 
1.39 
 97.72 
62.86 
9.03 
2.24 
9.94 
20.45 
4.75 
2.54 
 65.73 
 311.95 
 -
 311.95 
Disposals/adjustments 
-
-
 -
 (8.63)
(2.29)
(0.96)
(2.15)
(0.24)
(9.45)
(0.78)
(0.03)
-
 (24.53)
 -
 (24.53)
At March 31, 2024
-
241.12 
 10.67 
544.25 
278.22 
38.77 
7.67 
37.66 
108.27 
31.60 
11.29 
 201.48 
1,511.00 
 -
1,511.00 
Charge for the year
-
40.24 
1.82 
119.82 
73.12 
10.39 
2.21 
11.95 
28.55 
7.57 
3.84 
79.37
 378.88 
 -
 378.88 
Disposals/adjustments 
-
(2.57)
 (0.01)
 (8.43)
(14.10)
(0.99)
(0.03)
(1.84)
 (13.32)
(0.34)
-
(17.72)
 (59.35)
 -
 (59.35)
At March 31, 2025
-
278.79 
 12.48 
655.64 
337.24 
48.17 
9.85 
47.77 
123.50 
38.83 
15.13 
 263.13 
1,830.53 
 -
1,830.53 
At April 01, 2023
27.77 
669.68 
4.77 
692.49 
238.76 
49.59 
13.75 
26.68 
44.29 
28.04 
222.71 
 209.32 
2,227.85 
163.42 2,391.27 
At March 31, 2024
27.77 
793.29 
3.42 
774.73 
266.09 
72.52 
13.23 
36.84 
77.54 
43.20 
220.32 
 277.31 
2,606.26 
296.91 2,903.17 
At March 31, 2025
11.88 
900.33 
7.93  1,068.72 
320.96 
78.68 
11.36 
50.39 
86.70 
67.96 
361.87 
 285.35 
3,252.13 
116.47 3,368.60 
* Disposal Includes Assets held for sale amounting to ` 3.42 Crore (March 31, 2024 ` 2.18 Crore) Refer Note no 12
Notes: - 
(i)	
Right of Use Asset includes :-
	
(a)	
“Leasehold Land” represents land obtained on long term lease from various Government authorities. 
	
(b)	
Leasehold Buildings represent properties taken on lease for its offices and warehouses accounted for in accordance with principle of Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’. Refer Note 32(3) 
(ii)	
Capital work in progress as at March 31, 2025 consists of assets under construction mainly related to plant & machinery, buildings etc. at various plants of the Group. Adjustment in relation to capital work in 
progress relates to addition in property, plant and equipment made during the year.
(iii)	
Disclosure of Contractual commitment for the acquisition of property plant and equipment has been provided in note 31(B).
(iv)	
The grant related to assets incudes subsidy for the year ended March 31, 2025: Nil (March 31, 2024: ` 3.21 Crore) on account of Modified Special Incentive Package (MSIP) scheme for making capital investment 
at Ghiloth District, General Zone Industrial Area RIICO in the state of Rajasthan.
(v)	
The Group has not revalued its Property Plant and Equipment (Including Right of use assets) or Intangible assets during the year 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
307
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(vi)	
Capital work-in-progress (“CWIP”) Ageing schedule
As at March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Capital Work in progress
Amount in CWIP for a period of
 Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 294.94 
 1.97 
 - 
 - 
 296.91 
As at March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Capital Work in progress
Amount in CWIP for a period of
 Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 116.47 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 116.47 
Note: There are no projects under capital work in progress where the completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan as at March 31, 
2025. Further, there are no projects which have exceeded its cost compared to its original plan as at March 31, 2024.
Completion Schedule for capital work-in-progress whose completion is overdue as at March 31, 2024
To be completed In
Total 
Less than 1 year 
1-2 years 
 2-3 years  More Than 3 Year 
Cables plant at Tumakuru, Karnataka
 184.82 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 184.82 
(vii)	 Title deeds of Immovable Property not held in the name of the Group
As at March 31, 2025:
Relevant 
line item in 
the Balance 
Sheet 
Description 
of item of 
property 
Gross 
carrying 
value (` in 
crores) 
Title deeds held 
in the name of 
Whether title deed holder 
is a promoter, director 
or relative of promoter/
director or employee of 
promoter/director 
Property held 
since which 
date 
Reason for not being held in the 
name of the Group 
Property, 
plant and 
equipment 
Building In 
Bengaluru 
0.04 
Shakereh 
Shraddhanand 
No 
April 01, 2012 The 
possession 
and 
original 
agreement to sell, of the property is 
in the name of Group. Further, the 
Group is taking adequate legal steps 
to get the title deeds registered with 
appropriate authority,
As at March 31, 2024:
Relevant 
line item in 
the Balance 
Sheet 
Description 
of item of 
property 
Gross 
carrying 
value (` in 
crores) 
Title deeds held 
in the name of 
Whether title deed holder 
is a promoter, director 
or relative of promoter/
director or employee of 
promoter/director 
Property held 
since which 
date 
Reason for not being held in the 
name of the Group 
Property, 
plant and 
equipment 
Freehold 
land in Delhi 
15.89 
Late Shri Qimat 
Rai Gupta, on 
behalf of M/s 
Guptajee & 
Company 
Erstwhile Promoter/ 
Director 
March 31, 
2011
The possession and original 
agreement to sell, of the property 
is in the name of Group. Further, 
title deeds will be registered in 
the name of the Group once the 
state government's policy on 
registry is changed. 
Property, 
plant and 
equipment 
Building In 
Bengaluru 
0.04 
Shakereh 
Shraddhanand 
 No 
April 01, 2012 The possession and the original 
agreement to sell, of the property 
is in the name of Group. Further, 
the Group is taking adequate 
legal steps to get the title deeds 
registered 
with 
appropriate 
authority,
Havells India Limited
308
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(viii)	 Property where Group is a lessee but agreements are not executed as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Relevant line item 
in the Balance 
Sheet
 Description 
of item of 
property 
 Gross 
carrying 
Value (`) 
 Net 
carrying 
value 
Net 
lease 
liability
Title deeds 
held in the 
name of
Whether title deed holder 
is a promoter, director 
or relative of promoter/
director or employee of 
promoter/director
Property 
held 
since 
which 
date
Reason for lease 
agreement not 
executed with the 
Group
Property, plant and 
equipment
Building in 
Sahibabad
43.20 
36.10
40.36 
QRG 
Enterprises 
Limited
Promoter {refer note 32(6)}
August 
01, 2007
Rent 
is 
being 
paid 
based on the mutual 
understanding and the 
monthly invoice for usage 
charges is raised by QRG 
Enterprises {refer note 
32(6)}
Property, plant and 
equipment
Building in 
Noida
96.79 
62.92 
71.71 
QRG 
Enterprises 
Limited 
Promoter {refer note 32(6)}
July 01, 
2008
4.	
Goodwill and other Intangible assets
(` in crores)
Particulars
Computer 
Software 
R & D 
Software 
Trademarks 
Distributor/ 
Dealer Network 
Non-compete 
Fee 
Total
Other 
Intangible 
Assets 
Goodwill 
Intangibles 
assets under 
development 
Total 
Intangible 
Assets 
Gross carrying amount  
(at cost)
At April 01, 2023
55.55 
15.40 
1,029.00 
82.40 
 58.50 
 1,240.85 
310.47 
2.99 
1,554.31 
Additions - Acquired Separately 
12.26 
3.12 
-
-
 -
15.38 
-
5.12 
20.50 
Disposals/adjustments 
(0.19)
-
-
-
 -
(0.19)
-
 (6.32)
 (6.51)
At March 31, 2024
67.62 
18.52 
1,029.00 
82.40 
 58.50 
 1,256.04 
310.47 
1.79 
1,568.30 
Additions - Acquired Separately 
10.92 
3.07 
 25.68 
39.67 
-
9.62 
49.29 
Disposals/ adjustments 
(1.30)
-
-
-
 -
(1.30)
-
(9.69)
(10.99)
At March 31, 2025
77.24 
21.59 
1,054.68 
82.40 
 58.50 
 1,294.41 
310.47 
1.72 
1,606.60 
Accumulated amortization 
At April 01, 2023
39.75 
8.67 
-
60.80 
 49.30 
158.52 
-
-
158.52 
Charge for the year 
5.64 
2.26 
-
10.30 
8.35 
26.55 
-
-
26.55 
Disposals/adjustments 
(0.19)
-
-
 -
(0.19)
-
-
 (0.19)
At March 31, 2024
45.20 
10.93 
-
71.10 
 57.65 
184.88 
-
-
184.88 
Charge for the year 
6.65 
2.16 
1.60 
10.26 
0.85 
21.52 
-
-
21.52 
Disposals/adjustments 
(1.30)
-
-
-
 -
(1.30)
-
-
 (1.30)
At March 31, 2025
50.55 
13.09 
1.60 
81.36 
 58.50 
205.10 
-
-
205.10 
Net carrying amount 
At April 01, 2023
15.80 
6.73 
1,029.00 
21.60 
9.20 
 1,082.33 
310.47 
2.99 
1,395.79 
At March 31, 2024
22.42 
7.59 
1,029.00 
11.30 
0.85 
 1,071.16 
310.47 
1.79 
1,383.42 
At March 31, 2025
26.69 
8.50 
1,053.08 
1.04 
 -
 1,089.31 
310.47 
1.72 
1,401.51 
Note:
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives 
The management has determined budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations of future market scenario. The revenue and profit 
growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports.
The other key assumptions by the management include:
•	
As per industry estimates, the large home appliance and consumer electronics market (majorly including air conditioners, refrigerators, washing 
machines and televisions) is expected to grow at a rate of 15% per annum for next few years. 
•	
Revenue growth supported by distribution expansion and brand salience improvement
•	
Addition and expansion of manufacturing capacities for refrigerators and washing machines is assumed to progress Lloyd towards a full stack 
consumer durable player
•	
Margin improvement through better absorption of costs with scale expansion and operating leverage. The contribution margins are assumed to be in 
the range of 14-15%
Management has performed a sensitivity analysis on the above mentioned key assumptions, based on which, the management believes that the recoverable 
amount of the above mentioned assets of the CGU is more than the carrying amount and a reasonably possible change in the assumptions would not cause 
the carrying amount to exceeds its recoverable amount.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
309
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Assumption
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Approach used in determining value
Weighted average Cost of capital % 
(WACC) after tax (discount rate)
15.43%
15.24%
It has been determined basis risk free rate of return 
adjusted for equity risk premium.
Long Term Growth Rate
5.00%
5.00%
Long term growth rate has been taken basis on overall 
economic growth rate, industry trend & expected long-
term inflation in india.
Intangible assets under development
As at March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Intangible assets under 
development 
Amount in intangible assets under development for a period of
Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 1.72 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.72 
As at March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Intangible assets under 
development 
Amount in intangible assets under development for a period of
Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 1.79 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.79 
Note: There are no projects under Intangible assets under development where the completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to 
its original plan.
5.	
Contract Balances
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(A)	 Trade Receivables {refer note (a) below and note 10(A)}
 1,258.72 
 1,165.20 
 1,258.72 
 1,165.20 
(B)	 Contracts Assets {refer note (b)}
	
Unsecured, considered good
 12.34 
 39.85 
	
Less : Ioss allowance
 - 
 0.76 
 12.34 
 39.09 
	
Non-current portion
 1.01 
 11.55 
	
Current portion
 11.33 
 27.54 
(C)	 Contracts Liability {refer note (c) and note 22(v)}
 111.81 
 105.95 
 111.81 
 105.95 
	
Non-current portion
 5.78 
 4.64 
	
Current portion
 106.03 
 101.31 
Note:
(a)	
Trade Receivables represent the amount of consideration in exchange for goods or services transferred to the customers that is unconditional.
(b)	
During the earlier years, the Group had entered into agreements with customers wherein the Group had identified multiple performance 
obligations as per Ind AS 115 “Revenue from contracts with customers”. The Group’s right to receive consideration is conditional upon 
satisfaction of all performance obligations. Accordingly, the Group has recognised contracts assets in respect of performance obligations 
satisfied during the year. The contracts asset arises when the Group satisfies a performance obligation but does not have an unconditional 
right to consideration. contracts assets have decreased in the current year due to change in the time frame for a right to consideration to 
become unconditional (i e. for a contracts asset to be reclassified to trade receivable).
(c)	
The Group has entered into the agreements with customer for sale of goods and services. The Group has identified these performance obligations 
and recognised the contracts liabilities in respect of contracts, where the Group has obligation to deliver the goods and perform specified 
services to a customer for which the Group has received consideration. There has been no significant change in the contracts liabilities.
Havells India Limited
310
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
6.	
Non-Current Financial Assets
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(A)
NON-CURRENT INVESTMENT (measured at fair value through profit and loss)
Investments
Investment in preference shares (fully paid-up)
Unquoted
1,84,302 compulsorily convertible cumulative participative preference shares 
in Singularity Furniture Pvt Ltd. (March 31, 2024 1,72,563)
10.98 
20.00 
10.98 
20.00 
(B)
TRADE RECEIVABLES (valued at amortised cost)
Unsecured {refer note 10(A)}
Trade receivables from contracts with customers - considered good
 0.39 
 0.25 
 0.39 
 0.25 
(C)
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (valued at amortised cost) 
Unsecured, considered good
Earnest money and Security Deposits
 36.44 
 33.15 
 36.44 
 33.15 
7.	
Other Non-Current Assets
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Capital advances (refer note (a) below)
 77.16 
 126.30 
Others
Prepaid expenses
 4.53 
 4.58 
Deposits with Statutory and Government authorities 
 15.32 
 15.74 
 97.01 
 146.62 
Note: 
(a)	
Capital advances include an amount of ` Nil (March 31,2024: ` 96.45 crores) given to Noida Authority (U.P.) towards acquisition of land.
8.	
Current Tax Assets (Net)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current tax assets, net of current tax payable
 22.97 
 34.92 
 22.97 
 34.92 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
311
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
9.	
Inventories
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(Valued at lower of cost and net realisable value unless otherwise stated)
Raw materials and components
 869.21 
 770.97 
Work-in-progress
 255.98 
 165.62 
Finished goods
 1,907.04 
 1,760.91 
Traded goods
900.14
 611.32 
Stores and spares
 57.01 
 57.06 
Loose tools
 2.33 
 3.26 
Packing materials
 25.91 
 22.45 
Scrap materials
 29.23 
 17.04 
4,046.85
 3,408.63 
Notes:
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)	 The above includes goods in transit as under:
Raw materials
 146.93 
 99.60 
Finished goods
 273.58 
 197.59 
Traded goods
 28.77 
 29.72 
(b)	 The stock of scrap materials have been taken at net realisable value.
(c)	 During the year ` 4.30 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 35.83 crores) was 
recognised as an expense for inventory carried at net realisable value.
10.	 Current Financial Assets
(A)	 TRADE RECEIVABLES (valued at amortised cost)
	
Unsecured
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Trade receivables from contract with customers – billed
1,360.24
1,261.74
Trade receivables from contract with customers – unbilled (refer note (b) below)
5.24
-
Trade receivables (gross)
1,365.48
1,261.74
Less : Loss allowance
106.76
96.54
Trade receivables (net)
1,258.72
1,165.20
Current portion
 1,258.33 
 1,164.95 
Non - current portion {refer note 6(B)}
 0.39 
 0.25 
Trade receivables from contracts with customers - considered good
 1,328.65 
 1,224.62 
Trade receivables - credit impaired
 36.83 
 37.12 
Trade receivables (gross)
 1,365.48 
 1,261.74 
Less : Loss allowance 
 106.76 
 96.54 
Trade receivables (net)
 1,258.72 
 1,165.20 
Notes:
(a) Trade receivables includes from related parties ` NIl (March 31, 2024 0.03 crores) refer note 32(6)(C)
(b) The receivable is ‘unbilled’ because the Group has not yet issued an invoice; however, the balance has been included in trade receivables 
because it is an unconditional right to consideration.
Havells India Limited
312
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(I)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31,2025
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
dues 
 Not 
due 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
Undisputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
 5.24  672.26
525.56
29.77
25.48
20.48
49.86
1328.65
(ii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
-
(iii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
(iv)
Disputed Trade receivables - considered 
good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
(v)
Disputed Trade receivables - which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
(vi)
Disputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired
 - 
-
1.38
1.44
5.02
6.28
22.71
36.83
Total
5.24
672.26
526.94
31.21
30.50
26.76
72.57
1365.48
Less : Loss Allowance
 - 
-
 (6.87)
 (5.26)
 (5.89)
(16.17)
 (72.57)
 (106.76)
Total
5.24
672.26
520.07
25.95
24.61
10.59
-
1258.72
(II)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31,2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
dues 
 Not 
due 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
Undisputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
 - 649.64
418.87
29.96
45.19
 30.06 
 50.90  1,224.62 
(ii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed Trade receivables - considered 
good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)
Disputed Trade receivables - which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Disputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired
 - 
 0.00 
2.51
1.74
6.33
4.94
21.60
 37.12 
Total
 - 649.64
 421.38 
 31.70  51.52 
 35.00 
 72.50  1,261.74 
Less : Loss Allowance
 - 
 (0.00)
 (2.51)
 (2.24) (10.28)  (19.21)
 (62.30)
 (96.54)
Total
 - 649.64
 418.87 
 29.46  41.24 
 15.79 
 10.20  1,165.20 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
313
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(B)	 Cash and Cash Equivalents
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balances with banks:
Current accounts (net)
 59.81 
 56.67 
Cash credit accounts 
 31.67 
 69.94 
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months {refer notes (b) and (c)}
 715.59 
 139.36 
Cash on hand
 0.18 
 0.13 
807.25
266.10
Note:
(a)	
There are no restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the reporting period and prior period.
(b)	
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods from seven days to three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the 
Group and earn interest at the respective short-term deposits rates.
(c)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` 0.95 crores (March 31, 2024 ` 0.53 crores) related to Havells Employees Welfare Trust.
(d)	
Net debts reconciliation
Particulars
Cash and Cash equivalents
Lease Liabilities
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening balance
266.10 
456.86 
303.16 
223.10 
Addition on account of new leases during the year 
{refer note 32(3)}
106.79 
131.39 
Deletion on account of termination of leases during 
the year {refer note 32(3)}
 (23.52)
- 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and 
cash equivalents held in foreign currency
(3.70)
(4.54)
- 
- 
Cash flows
544.86
(194.52)
 (67.89)
 (51.33)
Interest expense
28.27 
25.82 
Interest paid
 (28.27)
 (25.82)
Closing balance 
807.26
266.10 
318.54 
303.16 
Non-current lease liability {refer note 14 (A)}
- 
 - 
241.00 
242.44 
Current maturity of long term lease liability  
{refer note 18 (A)}
- 
 - 
77.54 
60.72 
(C)	 Other Bank Balances
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deposits account with original maturity of more than three months but expiring less 
than twelve months {refer notes (a) and (d)}
 1,919.32 
 1,228.72 
Deposits account with original maturity of more than twelve months  
{refer notes (b) and (e)}
649.25 
 1,541.18 
Unpaid dividend account {refer note (c)}
 2.29 
 2.17 
 2,570.86 
 2,772.07 
Notes:
(a)	
The deposits maintained by the Group with banks comprise of the time deposits, which may be withdrawn by the Group at any point of time 
without prior notice and are made for varying periods from three months to twelve months depending on the immediate cash requirements 
of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
(b)	
Fixed deposit with original maturity of more than twelve months but remaining maturity of less than twelve months have been disclosed under 
other bank balances. 
(c)	
The Group can utilise the balance towards settlement of unclaimed dividend.
(d)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` 16.75 crores (March 31, 2024 ` 12.31 crores) related to Havells Employees Welfare Trust.
(e)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` Nil (March 31, 2024 ` 0.69 crores) related to Havells Employees Welfare Trust.
Havells India Limited
314
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(D)	 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (valued at amortised cost) 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Earnest money and security deposits
 3.80 
 4.30 
Contractual claims and other receivables {refer note (a)}
 1.85 
 16.69 
 5.65 
 20.99 
Notes:
(a)	
Contractual claims and other receivables includes claims in accordance with contracts with vendors.
11.	 Other Current Assets 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Advances other than capital advances
Advances for materials and services
 26.55 
 101.91 
Others
Prepaid expenses (refer note (b))
 60.39 
 45.55 
Duty free licenses in hand
 1.04 
 0.47 
Right to returned goods (refer note 22)
 30.13 
 30.13 
Government grant receivable (refer note (a))
 4.16 
 13.58 
Balance with Statutory and Government authorities/Others
 44.55 
 45.51 
 166.82 
 237.15 
Movement of Government grant receivable
Opening balance
 13.58 
 4.98 
Accrual of grant related to income (credited to statement of profit and loss 
account) (refer note 22 and 23)
 33.44 
 25.72 
Grant related to asset realised 
 - 
 (3.21)
Grant related to income realised 
 (42.86)
 (13.91)
Closing Balance 
 4.16 
 13.58 
Note:
(a)	
Government grant receivable includes budgetary support for refund of Goods and Service Tax, Production linked incentive scheme and 
Modified special incentive package scheme.
(b)	
Prepaid expenses include an amount of ` 1.32 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 0.65 crores) representing excess spent of Corporate Social 
Responsibility.
12.	 Assets Classified as Held for Sale
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Assets retired from active use 
 3.42 
 2.18 
 3.42 
 2.18 
Note:
Assets retired from active use consists of building, plant & machinery, dies and tools, furniture and fixtures, office equipment’s and electrical 
installations. The said assets will be disposed off within next six months by sale to third parties.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
315
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
13.	 Equity
(A)	 Share capital
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)	 Authorized Share Capital 
	
1,03,20,00,000 equity shares of `1/- each (March 31,2024: 1,03,20,00,000 
equity shares of `1/- each)
 103.20 
 103.20 
	
5,50,000 preference shares of `10/- each (March 31,2024: 5,50,000 preference 
shares of `10/- each)
 0.55 
 0.55 
 103.75 
 103.75 
b)	 Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up
	
62,69,41,732 equity shares of `1/- each (March 31, 2024: 62,66,83,030 equity 
shares of `1/- each) 
62.69 
 62.67 
c)	
Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
No. of shares
` in crores
No. of shares
` in crores
At the beginning of the year
 62,66,83,030 
 62.67 
 62,65,09,738 
 62.65 
Add: Exercise of employee stock purchase plan {refer 
note 32(7)}
 2,58,702 
 0.03 
 1,73,292 
 0.02 
 62,69,41,732 
 62.69 
 62,66,83,030 
 62.67 
d)	
Shareholding of promoters
S. 
No
Shares held by promoters at the end 
of the year
 As at  
March 31, 2025 
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 % change 
during the year 
Promoter Name
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta (as Managing Trustee 
of ARG Family Trust)
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
0.00%
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta (as Trustee of 
SKG Family Trust)
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
0.00%
3
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
 25,86,00,540 
41.25%
 25,86,00,540 
41.26%
0.00%
Total
 37,24,57,920 
59.41%
 37,24,57,920 
59.42%
S. 
No
Shares held by promoters at the 
beginning of the year
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
 % change 
during the year 
Promoter Name
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta (as Managing Trustee 
of ARG Family Trust)
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
0.00%
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta (as Trustee of 
SKG Family Trust)
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
 3,64,32,180 
5.82%
0.00%
3
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
 25,86,00,540 
41.26%
 25,86,00,540 
41.28%
0.00%
Total
 37,24,57,920 
59.42%
 37,24,57,920 
59.45%
Havells India Limited
316
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
e)	
Terms/rights attached to equity shares
	
The Group has only one class of issued share capital i.e. equity shares having a par value of `1/- per share (March 31,2024: 
`1/- per share). Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share. The Group declares and pays dividend in Indian 
rupees. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting.
	
In the event of liquidation of the Group, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Group 
after distribution of all preferential amounts, if any. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by 
the shareholders.
f)	
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Group is set out below (representing legal 
and beneficial ownership):
Name of Shareholders
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
No. of shares
% holding No. of shares
% holding 
Shri Anil Rai Gupta as Managing Trustee of ARG Family Trust
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta as Trustee of SKG Family Trust
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
 25,86,00,540 
41.25%
 25,86,00,540 
41.26%
Nalanda India Equity Fund Limited
 2,58,20,184 
4.12%
 3,30,44,930 
5.27%
g)	
Shares reserved for issue under Employee stock purchase plan
	
Information relating to Employee stock purchase plan, including details of options issued, exercised and lapsed during the 
financial year and options outstanding as at the end of the reporting period are set out in note 32(7).
(B)	 Other Equity
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Capital reserve
7.63 
7.63 
Securities premium
211.97 
169.45 
Share option outstanding account
17.01 
6.56 
General reserve
722.72 
722.72 
Retained earnings
7,300.07 
6,477.10 
Foreign currency translation reserve
1.70 
0.63 
Total other equity
8,261.10 
7,384.09 
a)
Capital reserve
7.63 
7.63 
b)
Securities premium
Opening balance
169.45 
148.15 
Add: Exercise of Employee stock purchase plan - proceeds received
42.52 
21.30 
Closing balance
211.97 
169.45 
c)
Stock options outstanding account
Opening balance
6.56 
2.30 
Add : Options recognised during the year
18.17 
7.67 
Less : Options vested and exercised during the year
 (7.72)
(3.41)
Closing balance
17.01 
6.56 
d)
General reserve
722.72 
722.72 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
317
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
e)
Retained earnings
Opening balance
6,477.10 
5,681.16 
Net profit for the year
1,472.26 
1,270.76 
Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings
Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans (net of tax)
(22.36)
(4.81)
Dividends
Final Dividend of ` 6.00 per share for FY 2023-24 (` 4.50 per share for  
FY 2022-23)
 (376.15)
 (282.01)
Interim dividend of ` 4.00 per share for FY 2024-25 (` 3.00 per share for  
FY 2023-24)
 (250.78)
 (188.00)
Closing balance
7,300.07 
6,477.10 
f)
Foreign currency translation reserve
Opening balance
0.63 
0.84 
Exchange difference on translation of financial statement of foreign operations
1.07 
(0.21)
Closing balance
1.70 
0.63 
(C)	 Nature and Purpose of Reserves
	
(a)	 Capital reserve
	
	
During amalgamation/ merger approved by honourable court, the excess of net assets taken over the consideration 
paid, if any, is treated as capital reserve. This capital reserve has arisen as a result of scheme of amalgamation in the 
past periods.
	
(b)	 Securities premium
	
	
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for limited 
purposes such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
(c)	 General reserve
	
	
Under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956, general reserve was created through an annual transfer of net income at a 
specified percentage in accordance with applicable regulations adjusted by utilisation of reserve in accordance with 
scheme of Amalgamation in earlier years. The requirement to mandatorily transfer a specified percentage of the net 
profit to general reserve before declaration of dividend has been withdrawn. However, the amount previously transferred 
to the general reserve can be utilised only in accordance with the specific requirements of Companies Act, 2013.
	
(d)	 Share options outstanding account
	
	
The share options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees 
under Employee stock purchase plan.
	
(e)	 Retained earnings
	
	
Retained Earnings are profits that the Group has earned till date less transfer to General Reserve, dividend or other 
distribution or transaction with shareholders.
	
(f)	
Foreign currency translation reserve
	
	
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations are recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in a separate reserve within equity. The cumulative amount is reclassified to statement of profit and loss 
when net investment is disposed off or classified as held for sale.
14.	 Non Current Financial Liabilities
(A)	 Lease Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Lease Liabilities {refer note 32(3)} 
 241.00 
 242.44 
 241.00 
 242.44 
Havells India Limited
318
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(B)	 Other Financial Liabilities (valued at amortised cost)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Creditors for capital goods
10.27
 - 
Employees contribution pursuant to employee stock purchase plan
 0.73 
 0.67 
Long term employee retention scheme
 0.35 
 0.45 
Other Liabilities (retention money)
 1.18 
 2.93 
 12.53 
 4.05 
15.	 Non Current Provisions
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for Gratuity 
 7.44 
 5.98 
Provision for other employee benefit plans (compensated absences  
{refer note 32(4)}) 
 12.60 
 11.34 
Product warranties and E-waste {Refer note 19(a)}
 34.70 
 70.40 
 54.74 
 87.72 
16.	 Income Taxes
The major components of income tax expense for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are:
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)	 Income tax expense in the statement of profit and loss comprises :
Current tax charge
513.13
440.83 
Adjustment in respect of current tax of previous year
 (10.68)
(0.23)
Total current income tax
502.45
440.60 
Deferred tax charge / (credit)
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 
 17.80 
(3.99)
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit or loss
520.25
436.61 
(b) Other Comprehensive Income 
Current income tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year:
Current income tax on re-measurement loss on defined benefit plans
 7.54 
 1.62 
Income tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year
 7.54 
 1.62 
(c) Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by 
India’s domestic tax rate :
Accounting Profit before tax
 1,990.49 
 1,707.37 
Applicable tax rate
25.168%
25.168%
Computed Tax Expense
500.97
429.71 
Expenses not allowed for tax purpose
 13.17 
 9.80 
Additional allowances for tax 
(0.11)
(0.17)
Others
6.22
(2.73)
Income tax charged to Statement of Profit and Loss at effective rate of 26.14% 
(March 31, 2024: 25.57%) {Refer Note (ii) below}
520.25 
436.61 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
319
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(d) Deferred tax liabilities comprises :
(` in crores)
Balance Sheet 
Statement of profit and loss 
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
422.54 
404.63 
 17.91 
10.79 
Right of Use as per Ind AS 116
 71.82 
 69.79 
 2.03 
17.11 
Lease liability as per Ind AS 116
 (80.17)
 (76.30)
(3.87)
 (20.15)
Expenses allowable on payment basis
 (13.27)
 (17.97)
 4.70 
(8.15)
Allowance for doubtful debts
 (26.68)
 (24.48)
(2.20)
(2.42)
Other Items giving rise to temporary differences
 1.08 
 1.85 
(0.77)
(1.17)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
375.32 
357.52 
 17.80 
(3.99)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
Opening balance as per last balance sheet
357.52
361.51
Deferred tax charged/(credited) to profit and loss 
account during the year
 7.14
(2.62) 
Adjustment in respect of deferred tax of previous year
 10.66
(1.37) 
Closing balance
375.32
357.52
Notes:
(i)	
The Group has unabsorbed capital loss of ` 177.31crores as on March 31, 2025 (March 31, 2024: ` 171.09 crores) out of which capital 
loss of ` 122.30 crores will expire in financial year 2025-26, capital loss of ` 27.51 crores will expire in financial year 2029-30, capital loss of 
` 21.28 crores will expire in financial year 2030-31 and capital loss of ` 6.20 crores will expire in financial year 2032-33, on which no 
deferred tax asset has been created by the management due to lack of probability of future capital gain against which such deferred tax 
assets can be realised. If the Group were able to recognise all unrecognised deferred tax assets, the profit after tax would have increased by 
` 40.57 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 39.15 Crore). 
(ii)	
Effective tax rate has been calculated on profit before tax.
17.	 Other Non-Current Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Other non-current liabilities (pertains to advance discount received)
 4.31 
 6.48 
 4.31 
 6.48 
18.	 Current Financial Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(A)
Lease Liabilities
Current maturities of Lease liability {refer note 32 (3)} 
 77.54 
 60.72 
 77.54 
 60.72 
(B)
Trade Payables
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises; and
 198.88 
 203.70 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 2,848.10 
 2,488.20 
 3,046.98 
 2,691.90 
Notes:
(i)	
Trade Payables include dues to related parties ` 35.57 crores (March 31, 2024 : `24.87 crores) {refer note 32(6)(C)}. For terms and 
conditions with related parties. {refer to note 32(6)}
Havells India Limited
320
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(ii)	
The amounts are unsecured and non interest-bearing and are usually on varying trade terms.
(iii)	
The amounts falling in the category of more than 1 year are related to pending obligations on the part of the supplier as per agreed terms 
and conditions mentioned in respective contracts.
	
a) Information as required to be furnished as per section 22 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (MSMED 
Act) for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 is given below. This information has been determined to the extent such 
parties have been identified on the basis of information available with the Group.
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
i)	
Principal amount and interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier covered 
under MSMED Act, 2006 as at the end of each accounting year
	
Principal 
 198.88 
 203.70 
	
Interest
- 
 - 
ii)	
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16, of the MSMED Act, 2006 
along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
during each accounting year.
- 
 - 
iii)	
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which 
have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the 
interest specified under MSMED Act, 2006
- 
 - 
iv)	
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year.
- 
 - 
v)	
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the micro & small 
enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under section 23 
of the MSMED Act, 2006.
- 
 - 
The total dues of Micro and Small Enterprises which were outstanding for more than stipulated 
period are ` Nil (March 31, 2024 : ` Nil)
- 
 - 
Trade payables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2025
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues
Not due 
 Less than 
1 year 
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
MSME
 - 
 198.88 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 198.88 
(ii)
Others
 290.23  2,315.01 
 237.13 
 3.37 
 0.01 
 0.86  2,846.14 
(iii)
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 1.39 
 1.49 
Total
 290.23  2,513.89 
 237.13 
 3.37 
 0.11 
 2.25  3,046.98 
Trade payables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues
 Not due 
Less than 
1 year 
1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
MSME
 - 
 195.80 
 7.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 203.70 
(ii)
Others
 125.09  2,003.78 
 349.39 
 7.61 
 0.84 
 - 
 2,486.71 
(iii)
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 - 
 1.39 
 1.49 
Total
 125.09  2,199.58 
 357.29 
 7.71 
 0.84 
 1.39 
 2,691.90 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
321
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(C)	 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (valued at amortised cost)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unpaid dividend {refer note below}
 2.29 
 2.17 
Other payables
ESPP compensation payable
 2.68 
 2.25 
Creditors for capital goods
 56.16 
 50.54 
Deposits from customers
 62.60 
 55.18 
Retention Money
 34.88 
 39.40 
Other liabilities
Employee benefit obligations
 191.42 
 162.53 
Sales incentives payable 
 512.26 
 468.34 
Others 
 7.73 
 7.27 
 870.02 
 787.68 
Notes:
Investor Education and Protection Fund is being credited by the amount of unclaimed dividend after seven years from the due date. The Group 
has transferred ` 0.19 crores (March 31,2024 : `0.24 crores) out of unclaimed dividend to Investor Education and Protection Fund of Central 
Government in accordance with the provisions of section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013.
19.	 Current Provisions
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
i) Provision for employee benefits
Gratuity employee benefit plans {refer note no. 32(4)}
 57.56 
 30.56 
Other employee benefit plans (compensated absences)
 3.33 
 1.48 
(A)
 60.89 
 32.04 
ii) Other provisions
Product warranties {refer note (a)}
 264.80 
 236.53 
Litigations {refer note (b)}
 9.21 
 9.10 
(B)
 274.01 
 245.63 
(A) + (B)
 334.90 
 277.67 
a)	
Provision for product warranties
(i)	
Warranties
	
A provision is recognized for expected warranty claims and after sales services on products sold during the last one 
to seven years, based on past experience of the level of repairs and defective returns. It is expected that significant 
portion of these costs will be incurred in the next financial year and all will be incurred within seven years after the 
reporting date. Assumptions used to calculate the provisions for warranties are based on current sales levels and 
current information available about defective returns based on one to seven years warranty period for all products 
sold and are consistent with those in the prior years. The assumptions made in relation to the current year are 
consistent with those in the prior year.
Havells India Limited
322
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(ii)	
The table below gives information about movement in Warranties and E-waste provision
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
At the beginning of the year
 306.93 
 369.57 
Charged/(credited) to profit or loss
 - additional provision recognized (refer note 30)
 359.89 
 235.53 
 - unwinding of discount {refer note no. 28 }
 7.52 
 12.11 
Amounts used during the period
 (374.84)
 (310.28)
At the end of year
 299.50 
 306.93 
Current portion
 264.80 
 236.53 
Non-current portion {refer note no.15}
 34.70 
 70.40 
b)	
 Provision for litigations
	
Provision for litigation amounting to ` 9.21 Crores (March 31, 2024: ` 9.10 Crores) is created against demands raised in various 
ongoing litigations in ordinary course of business. Based on the facts of the case and legal precedents ,the management 
believes there would be a probable outflow of resources and accordingly, has created a provision in books of account.
	
The table below gives information about movement in litigation provisions:
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
At the beginning of the year
 9.10 
 6.70 
Charged/(credited) to profit or loss
 0.11 
 2.40 
Amounts used during the period
 - 
 - 
At the end of year
 9.21 
 9.10 
Current portion
 9.21 
 9.10 
Non-current portion
 - 
 - 
20.	 Current Tax Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current tax liabilities (net of advance tax and tax deducted at source amounting to 
` 443.13 crores (March 31, 2024 ` 354.06 crores)
 62.68 
 85.20 
 62.68 
 85.20 
21.	 Other Current Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Refund Liability*
 42.59 
 42.59 
Goods and Services Tax Payable
 148.84 
 156.98 
Other statutory dues payable
 82.03 
 76.71 
Others
 3.15 
 2.32 
 276.61 
 278.60 
* The Group has recognised a refund liability for the Sales return from customers amounting to ` 42.59 crores (March 31, 2024: 42.59 
crores), which is in the normal course of business. The Group has also recognised a right to recover the returned goods ` 30.13 crores 
(March 31, 2024: 30.13 crores). The costs to recover the products are not material because the customers usually return the product in a 
saleable condition.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
323
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
22.	 Revenue from Operation
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue from contracts with customers:
Sale of products 
21,512.95 
18,398.99 
Sales of services
87.13 
74.32 
(A) 
21,600.08 
18,473.31 
Other operating revenues
Export Incentive
16.16 
13.50 
Government grant received
12.00 
 -
Scrap sales
149.82 
 103.20 
(B)
177.98 
 116.70 
Total revenue from operations
(A) + (B) 
21,778.06 
18,590.01 
(i)
Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time
21,662.77 
18,502.19 
Services transferred over the time
87.13 
74.32 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
21,749.90 
18,576.51 
Add : Export Incentive
16.16 
13.50 
Add : Government grant received
12.00 
 -
Total revenue from operations
21,778.06 
18,590.01 
(ii)
Disaggregation of revenue based on product or service
Switchgears
2,392.61 
2,240.54 
Cables
7,174.23 
6,312.11 
Lighting and fixtures
1,670.56 
1,639.61 
Electrical consumer durables
4,011.92 
3,480.90 
Lloyd Consumer 
5,121.80 
3,809.91 
Others
1,378.78 
1,093.44 
Total revenue from contracts with customers*
21,749.90 
18,576.51 
* Includes revenue from installation services and service-type warranties.
(iii)
Revenue by location of customers
India 
20,949.93 
17,973.28 
Outside India
799.97 
 603.23 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
21,749.90 
18,576.51 
Add : Export Incentive
16.16 
13.50 
Add : Government grant received
12.00 
Total revenue from operations
21,778.06 
18,590.01 
(iv)
Reconciliation of revenue recognised in statement of profit 
and loss with contracted price
Revenue as per contracted price
21,863.76 
18,684.61 
Less: Cash discount
(113.86)
(108.10)
Total revenue from contracts with customers
21,749.90 
18,576.51 
Add : Export Incentive
16.16 
13.50 
Add : Government grant received
12.00
-
Total revenue from operations
21,778.06 
18,590.01 
(v)	
Performance obligation
	
Sale of products: Performance obligation in respect of sale of goods is satisfied when control of the goods is transferred to 
the customer, generally on delivery/ despatch of the goods as applicable and payment is generally due as per the terms of 
contracts with customers.
	
Sale of services: The performance obligation in respect of maintenance services is satisfied over a period of time and 
acceptance of the customer. In respect of these services, payment is generally due upon completion of maintenance period 
based on time elapsed and acceptance of the customer. In certain non-standard contracts, where the Group provides 
warranties in service of consumer durable goods, the same is accounted for as a separate performance obligation and a 
portion of the transaction price is allocated based on its relative Consolidated prices. The performance obligation for the 
warranty service is satisfied over a period of time based on time elapsed.
Havells India Limited
324
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
The transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligation (unsatisfied performance obligation) pertaining to sales 
of goods and services as at March 31, 2025 and expected time to recognise the same as revenue is as follows:-
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Within one year
 106.03 
 101.31 
More than one year
 5.78 
 4.64 
 111.81 
 105.95 
Note: The remaining performance obligation expected to be recognised in more than one year relates to amounts received from customers against 
which performance obligation is to be satisfied over a period of one to four years. All other remaining performance obligations are expected to be 
recognised within one year. During the year ended March 31, 2025, revenue recognised from amount included in contracts liability at the beginning 
of year is ` 101.31 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 82.53 crores).
(vi)	 Disclosure pursuant to Appendix C of Ind AS 115
	
The Group was awarded a contracts for replacement of existing conventional street/ park lights with LED street/ park lights 
by a Municipal Corporation in April 2017. As per the agreement, the Group shall also be responsible for the operation and 
maintenance of LED street/ park lights for a period of 7 years after installation which will be completed in FY 2026-27. The 
consideration received by the Group under the contracts is based on the energy savings resulting from the LED street/ park 
lights. The revenue recognised during the year and the contracts assets balance as at year-end from such contracts amounts 
to ` 46.34 Crores (March 31, 2024: ` 43.34 crores) and ` 12.34 Crores (March 31, 2024: ` 30.32 crores) respectively.
23.	 Other Income
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest received on financial assets carried at amortised cost:
Deposits with banks
 218.12 
 173.87 
Investment
 - 
 2.25 
Unwinding income on security deposits
 7.45 
 8.76 
Other non-operating income 
Exchange fluctuations (net)
 38.92 
 33.67 
Profit on sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
 - 
 10.27 
Discount on License utilised
 0.06 
 0.34 
Government Grant (Refer note below)
 5.28 
 9.01 
Insurance claim received
 17.05 
Miscellaneous income
 16.39 
 10.79 
 303.27 
 248.96 
Note: Government grant includes subsidy from government authorities in form of Goods and Service tax refund.
24.	 Cost of Raw Materials and Components Consumed
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Copper
 4,314.25 
 3,660.53 
Aluminium
 1,486.37 
 1,134.00 
General plastic and Engineering Plastic
 536.07 
 463.58 
Paints and chemicals
 507.60 
 477.60 
Steel
 355.51 
 323.43 
Packing materials
 437.20 
 390.52 
Other material
 4,362.30 
 3,424.11 
 11,999.30 
 9,873.77 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
325
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
25.	 Purchase of Traded Goods
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Switchgears
 154.44 
 129.77 
Cables
 0.31 
 0.59 
Lighting and fixtures
 428.92 
 420.14 
Electrical consumer durables
 902.64 
 659.86 
Lloyd Consumer
 954.31 
 814.08 
Others
 708.31 
 427.74 
 3,148.93 
 2,452.18 
26.	 Change in Inventories of Finished Goods, Traded Goods and Work-in-Progress
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(Increase)/ 
Decrease
Inventories at the end of the year
Finished goods
 1,907.04 
 1,760.91 
 (146.13)
Traded goods
 902.39 
 611.21 
 (291.18)
Work in progress
 255.98 
 165.62 
 (90.36)
Scrap materials
 29.23 
 17.04 
 (12.19)
 3,094.64 
 2,554.78 
 (539.86)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31,2023
(Increase)/ 
Decrease
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Finished goods
 1,760.91 
 1,764.20 
 3.29 
Traded goods
 611.21 
 851.64 
 240.43 
Work in progress
 165.62 
 165.56 
 (0.06)
Scrap materials
 17.04 
 16.11 
 (0.93)
 2,554.78 
 2,797.51 
 242.73 
27.	 Employee Benefits Expenses
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Salaries, wages, bonus, commission and other benefits
 1,707.05 
 1,422.60 
Contribution towards Provident Fund, Family Pension and ESI
 63.66 
 55.72 
Employee stock purchase plan expense {refer note no. 32(7)}
 47.88 
 27.00 
Gratuity expense {refer note no. 32(4)}
 27.72 
 24.78 
Staff welfare expenses
 23.71 
 18.25 
 1,870.02 
 1,548.35 
Havells India Limited
326
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
28.	 Finance Costs
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest expense on Security Deposits and others
 0.09 
 1.44 
Interest on Income tax
 7.18 
 6.18 
Interest on lease liability {refer note no. 32(3)}
 28.27 
 25.82 
Other financial expenses
 0.18 
 0.16 
Total interest expense
 35.72 
 33.60 
Unwinding of discount on long term provisions {refer note no. 19(a)(ii)}
 7.52 
 12.11 
Total Finance cost
 43.24 
 45.71 
29.	 Depreciation and Amortisation Expenses
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment {refer note 3}
 295.67 
 243.68 
Amortization of intangible assets {refer note 4}
 21.52 
 26.55 
Depreciation of Right of use assets {refer note 3}
 83.21 
 68.27 
 400.40 
 338.50 
30.	 Other Expenses
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Consumption of stores and spares
 66.36 
 59.92 
Power and fuel
 157.11 
 135.33 
Job work and service charges
 464.10 
 377.14 
Rent
 30.30 
 49.41 
Repairs and maintenance:
  Plant and machinery
 56.63 
 40.57 
  Buildings
 4.85 
 4.60 
  Others
 36.32 
 29.87 
Information technology expenses
 97.13 
 84.41 
Rates and taxes
 3.74 
 9.15 
Insurance
 32.38 
 32.42 
Trade mark fee and royalty
 0.63 
 0.63 
Travelling and conveyance
 198.34 
 146.39 
Communication expenses
 5.96 
 5.49 
Legal and professional charges
 32.00 
 31.20 
Payment to Auditors
Audit fee
 1.45 
 1.35 
Certification and other service fee
 0.81 
 0.47 
Reimbursement of expenses
 0.18 
 0.16 
Payment to Tax Auditors
Tax audit fee
 0.04 
 0.04 
Contribution towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) {refer note no. 32(8)} 
 32.28 
 30.21 
Directors sitting fees
 0.97 
 1.01 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
327
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Freight and forwarding expense
 679.81 
 605.87 
Advertisement and sales promotion
 624.38 
 527.36 
Commission on sales
 142.46 
 130.34 
Product warranties and after sales services 
 359.89 
 235.53 
Bank Charges
 28.77 
 38.50 
Loss on sale/ discard of property, plant and equipment (net)
 15.10 
 - 
Fair value loss on investment
 9.03 
Miscellaneous expenses
 44.11 
 35.33 
 3,125.13 
 2,612.70 
30A.	Net Impairment Losses on Financial and Contract Assets
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Loss on trade receivables and contract assets
 9.46 
 9.68 
Bad debts written off
 34.22 
 7.98 
 43.68 
 17.66 
31.	 Commitments and Contingencies
(` in crores)
As At 
March 31, 2025
As At 
March 31, 2024
A. Contingent liabilities (to the extent not provided for)
a Claims / Suits filed against the Group not acknowledged as debts (Refer point (i))
 10.56 
 6.67 
b Disputed tax liabilities in respect of pending litigations before appellate authorities
 57.36 
 110.25 
{Amount deposited under protest ` 4.16 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 10.20 crores), included in 
“Deposit with Statutory and Government authorities” in note no. 7) {refer point (ii)}
Notes:
i) Claims / suits filed against the Group not acknowledged as debts which represents various legal cases filed against the Group. The Group has 
disclaimed the liability and defending the action. The Group has been advised by its legal counsel that its position is likely to be upheld in the 
litigation process and accordingly no provision for any liability has been made in the financial statement.
ii) The various disputed tax litigations are as under :
(` in crores)
Sl.
Description {refer note below}
Period to which 
relates
Disputed amount 
As At 
March 31, 2025
Period to which 
relates
Disputed amount 
As At 
March 31, 2024
a)
Excise / Customs / Service Tax
Demands raised by Excise and Custom 
department.
2007-08 to 2009-
10, 2015-16 to 
2023-24
27.62
1994-97, 2007-08 to 
2009-10, 2015-16 to 
2020-21
24.13
b)
Income Tax*
Disallowances / additions made by the income 
tax department.
2009-10, 2010-
11, 2013-14, 
2014-15
and 2022-23
24.32
2008-09
to 2014-15 and  
2016-17
27.52
c)
Goods and Service Tax
Demands raised by GST Department
2017-18,
2019-20, 2020-21 
and 2022-23
3.74
2017-18, 
2019-20 and 2022-23
56.58
Havells India Limited
328
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Sl.
Description {refer note below}
Period to which 
relates
Disputed amount 
As At 
March 31, 2025
Period to which 
relates
Disputed amount 
As At 
March 31, 2024
d)
Sales Tax / VAT
Demands raised by Sales tax / VAT 
department.
2003-04, 2005-06 
to 2011-12 and 
2016-17
1.56
2003-04, 2005-06 to 
2011-12 and 2016-17
1.87
e)
Others
Demand of local area development tax by the 
concerned authorities.
2001-02
0.12
2001-02
0.12
Demand of octroi along with penalty in the state 
of Maharashtra by the concerned authorities.
-
2010-11 
0.03
57.36
110.25
Notes:
The above figures are net of provisions made by the Group. The Group is contesting these demands and the management believe that its position 
is likely to be upheld in the appellate process. The management believes that the ultimate outcome of this proceeding will not have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s financial position and results of operations. 
* Based on favourable decisions in similar cases, the Group does not expect any liability against these matters in accordance with principles of 
Ind AS -12 ‘Income taxes’ read with Ind AS -37; Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ and hence no provision has been 
considered in the books of accounts except for provision created in respect of few years {refer note 19(ii)}.
The above amounts contain interest and penalty where included in the order issued by the department to the Group.
B.	
Commitments 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Estimated amount of capital contracts remaining to be executed and not provided for 
(Net of Advances amounting to ` 77.16 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 131.98 crores))
 865.18 
 268.86 
 865.18 
 268.86 
C.	
Undrawn committed borrowing facility
	
During the Year, the Group has availed fund and non fund based unsecured working capital limit amounting to ` 942.50 crores 
(March 31, 2024: 1142.50 crores) under multiple banking arrangements from IDBI Bank Limited, Yes Bank Limited, Standard 
Chartered Bank Limited, HSBC Bank, ICICI Bank Limited, IndusInd Bank Limited, HDFC Bank Limited, DBS Bank Limited and CITI 
Bank N.A. An amount of ` 573.27 crores (March 31, 2024: 836.75 crores) remain undrawn as at March 31, 2025. Drawn amount 
is related to non fund based bank guarantee and letter of credit.
D.	
Other Litigations
	
The Group has taken provisions amounting ` 9.21 Crores (March 31, 2024 : ` 9.10 Crores) against the income tax and other 
indirect tax related litigations. These provisions represent estimates made where liability has been assessed as probable. The 
probability and the timing of the outflow with regard to these matters depend on the final outcome of the litigations/disputes. 
Hence, the Group is not able to reasonably ascertain the timing of the outflow.
E.	
The Group has outstanding obligation amounting to ` 0.12 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 0.72 crores) in respect of bonds given 
to central tax department against import of goods at concessional rate of basic custom duty. The Group expects to fulfil the 
obligation in due course of time.
F.	
The Group has export obligation of ` 224.55 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 236.44 crores) on account of import duty exemption 
of ` 11.85 crores (March 31, 2024: `12.56 crore) on capital goods under the Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG) and ` 
0.05 crores (March 31, 2024: ` 0.79 crores) Advance Authorisation scheme laid down by the Government of India. The Group 
expects to fulfil the obligation in due course of time.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
329
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
32.	 Other Notes on Accounts
1.	
Group information
(i)	
The Consolidated financial statement of the group includes subsidiaries and joint venture are mentioned below :-
S. N Name of the entity
Country of 
incorporation
Nature 
 Ownership 
interest held 
by the group 
Year Ended  Net Assets, i.e., total assets 
minus total liabilities 
 Share in profit or loss 
Share in other  
Comprehensive Income
Share in Total  
Comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
Net Assets 
Amount 
(` In crores) 
 As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss 
 Amount 
(` In 
crores) 
 As % of 
consolidated other 
comprehensive 
Income 
 Amount 
(` In 
crores) 
 As % of 
consolidated 
comprehensive 
Income 
 Amount 
(` In 
crores) 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
(I)
Parent
Havells India Limited
India
Parent Company
Mar 31, 2025
100%
 8,330.99 
101%
 1,488.84 
106%
 (22.36)
101% 1,466.48 
Mar 31, 2024
100%
 7,438.45 
100%
 1,273.21 
96%
 (4.81)
100% 1,268.40 
(II)
Foreign Subsidiaries having no non-controlling interests
1
Havells Guangzhou 
International Limited 
China
Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary
100.00%
Mar 31, 2025
0%
 5.32 
0%
 (4.17)
0%
 0.10 
0%
 (4.07)
100.00%
Mar 31, 2024
0%
 9.39 
0%
 (1.71)
6%
 (0.32)
0%
 (2.03)
2
Havells International Inc. USA
Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary
100.00%
Mar 31, 2025
1%
 60.27 
0%
 (3.11)
-7%
 1.45 
0%
 (1.66)
100.00%
Mar 31, 2024
0%
 20.10 
0%
 (0.74)
-2%
 0.11 
0%
 (0.63)
(III) Foreign Subsidiaries having non-controlling interests
1
Havells HVAC LLC
USA
80% held by Havells 
International Inc.
80.00%
Mar 31, 2025
0%
 18.00 
0%
 (5.77)
-1%
 0.14 
0%
 (5.63)
80.00%
Mar 31, 2024
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
2
Havells Lighting LLC
USA
68.75% held by Havells 
International Inc.
68.75%
Mar 31, 2025
0%
 27.89 
0%
 (1.28)
-1%
 0.31 
0%
 (0.97)
100.00%
Mar 31, 2024
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
(IV) Non-controlling interests in all entites
Mar 31, 2025
0%
 17.18 
0%
 (2.02)
-1%
 0.18 
 (1.84)
Mar 31, 2024
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
Inter-company eliminations
Mar 31, 2025
-1%
 (118.68)
0%
 (2.25)
4%
 (0.93)
0%
 (3.18)
Inter-company eliminations
Mar 31, 2024
0%
 (21.18)
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
Total - March 31, 2025
100%
 8,340.97 
100%
 1,470.24 
100%
 (21.11)
100% 1,449.13 
Total - March 31, 2024
100%
 7,446.76 
100%
 1,270.76 
100%
 (5.02)
100% 1,265.74 
Havells India Limited
330
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
2.	
During the year, the Group has capitalised the following expenses directly relatable to the cost of property, plant and equipment 
and capital work-in progress, being expenses related to projects and development of Dies and Fixtures. Consequently, 
expenses disclosed under the respective notes are net of amounts capitalised by the Group.
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cost of material consumed
 10.09 
 14.48 
Employee benefits expense
 8.80 
 4.39 
Other expenses
 5.18 
 5.31 
 24.07 
 24.18 
3.	
Leases
i	
The Group’s lease asset primarily consist of leases for land and buildings for branch offices and warehouses having the 
various lease terms. The Group also has certain leases of with lease terms of 12 months or less. The Group applies the ‘short-
term lease’ recognition exemption for these leases. Payment made towards leases of low value assets other than building 
and warehouse are recognized in the statement of Profit and Loss as rental expenses over the tenure of such leases.
ii	
Following is carrying value of right of use assets and the movements thereof :
(` in crores)
Particulars
Right of Use Asset
Total
Leasehold Land
Leasehold Building
Balance as at April 1, 2023
222.71
209.32
 432.03 
Additions during the year
 0.30 
133.72
 134.02 
Deletion during the year
 (0.15)
 - 
 (0.15)
Depreciation of Right of use assets (refer note 29)
 (2.54)
 (65.73)
 (68.27)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 220.32 
277.31
 497.63 
Additions during the year
 145.39 
108.61
 254.00 
Deletion during the year
 - 
 (21.20)
 (21.20)
Depreciation on Right of use assets (refer note 29)
 (3.84)
 (79.37)
 (83.21)
Balance as at March 31, 2025 
 361.87 
285.35
 647.22 
iii	
The following is the carrying value of lease liability and movement thereof :
(` in crores)
Particulars
Amount
Balance as at April 1, 2023
223.10
Additions during the year
 131.39 
Finance cost accrued during the year
 25.82 
Deletion during the year
 - 
Payment of lease liabilities including interest
 (77.15)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 303.16 
Additions during the year
 106.79 
Finance cost accrued during the year
 28.27 
Deletion during the year
 (23.52)
Payment of lease liabilities including interest
 (96.16)
Balance as at March 31, 2025 
 318.54 
Current maturities of Lease liability {refer note 18 (A)} 
 77.54 
Non-Current Lease Liability {refer note 14 (A)} 
 241.00 
 318.54 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
331
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
iv	
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in Note 32(10).
v	
The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities is 8.5%
vi	
Amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss during the year
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets - leasehold building
 79.37 
 65.73 
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets - leasehold land
 3.84 
 2.54 
Finance cost accrued during the year (included in finance cost) (refer note 28)
 28.27 
 25.82 
Expense related to short term and low value leases (included in other expense) 
(refer note 30)
 30.30 
 49.41 
vii	
The Group does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities as the current assets are sufficient to meet 
the obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
viii	 The Group has applied a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases of a similar assets in similar economic environment with 
similar end date.
ix	
Non-cash investing activities during the year:
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Acquisition of right of use assets 
 254.00 
 134.02 
Disposals of right of use assets 
 (21.20)
 (0.15)
x	
Extension and termination options are included in a number of property and equipment leases across the Group. These 
are used to maximise operational flexibility in terms of managing the assets used in the Group’s operations. The majority of 
extension and termination options held are exercisable only by the Group and not by the respective lessor.
xi	
As at March 31, 2025, potential future cash outflows of ` 382.91 (March 31, 2024: ` 255.38) (undiscounted) have not been 
included in the lease liability because it is not reasonably certain that the leases will be extended (or not terminated).
4.	
Gratuity and other post-employment benefit plans
	
Disclosures pursuant to Ind AS - 19 “Employee Benefits” (notified under the section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (the Act) 
read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rule 2015 (as amended from time to time) and other relevant provision 
of the Act) are given below :
	
Contribution to Defined Contribution Plan, recognised as expense for the year is as under:
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Employer’s Contribution towards Provident Fund (PF)
63.42
55.43
Employer’s Contribution towards Employee State Insurance (ESI)
0.24
0.29
63.66
55.72
Havells India Limited
332
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
Compensated absences
	
The provision for compensated absences covers the liability for earned leave as per actuarial valuation, the amount of provision 
recognised is ` 15.94 crores (March 31, 2024 ` 12.82 Crores), net of amount funded with Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd 
of `12.82 crores (March 31, 2024 ` NIL)
	
Defined Benefit Plan
	
The employees’ Gratuity Fund Scheme, which is a defined benefit plan, is managed by the trust which maintains its 
investments with Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd. The gratuity plan is governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. 
Under the gratuity plan, every employee who has completed at least five years of service gets a gratuity on departure at 15 
days of last drawn basic salary for each completed year of service. The present value of obligation is determined based on 
actuarial valuation using the Projected Unit Credit Method, which recognises each period of service as giving rise to additional 
unit of employee benefit entitlement and measures each unit separately to build up the final obligation.
	
The following tables summaries the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit or loss, the 
funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the respective plans:
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
a)
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of Defined Benefit obligation
Present value of Defined Benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
209.18
177.81
Interest Expense
13.39 
12.67 
Current Service Cost
26.68 
 23.88 
Benefits paid
(16.41)
(10.95)
Remeasurement of (Gain)/loss recognised in other comprehensive income:
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
38.02 
1.86 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments
 (4.88)
3.91 
Present value of Defined Benefit obligation at year end
265.96
209.18
b)
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of fair value of plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year
172.64
142.45
Expected return on plan assets
12.33
11.77
Employer contribution
28.15 
29.07 
Remeasurement of Gain/(loss) in other comprehensive income
Return on Plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest expense
3.24 
(0.66)
Benefits paid
(15.40)
(9.99)
Fair value of plan assets at year end
200.96
172.64
c)
Net defined benefit asset/ (liability) recognised in the balance sheet
Fair value of plan assets
200.96 
172.64 
Present value of defined benefit obligation
(265.96)
(209.18)
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet- Asset / (Liability)
(65.00)
(36.54)
Current portion {refer note 19(i)} 
(57.56)
(30.56)
Non-current portion 
(7.44)
(5.98)
d)
Net defined benefit expense (recognised in the Statement of profit and 
loss for the year)
Current service cost
26.67
23.88
Interest cost (net)
 1.05 
0.90 
Net defined benefit expense debited to statement of profit and loss 
27.72
24.78
e)
Remeasurement (gain)/ loss recognised in other comprehensive income 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
38.02 
1.86 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments
 (4.88)
3.91 
Return on Plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest expense
 (3.24)
0.66 
Recognised in other comprehensive income
29.90 
6.43 
f)
Broad categories of plan assets as a percentage of total assets
Insurer managed funds
100%
100%
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
333
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
g)	
Principal assumptions used in determining defined benefit obligation
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Mortality Table (LIC)
2012-14 
(Ultimate)
2012-14 
(Ultimate)
Discount rate (per annum)
7.09%
7.24%
Salary Escalation 
9.50%
9.50%
Attrition Rate 
7.00%
7.00%
h)	
Quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions is as below:
	
Increase / (decrease) on present value of defined benefits obligations at the end of the year
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Discount rate
Increase by 1%
(18.91)
 (13.41)
Decrease by 1%
21.39 
 15.30 
Salary increase
Increase by 1%
20.67 
 14.96 
Decrease by 1%
(18.66)
 (13.38)
Attrition rate
Increase by 1%
 (2.98)
 (1.94)
Decrease by 1%
 3.29 
2.18 
i)	
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation (undiscounted)
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
19.12 
 13.23 
Between 2 and 5 years 
70.63 
 87.31 
More than 5 years
415.69 
283.80 
Total expected payments
505.44 
384.34 
j)	
The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 21.88 years for on-roll 
employees (March 31, 2024: 21.80 years).
k)	
The Group expects to contribute ` 55.05 crores (March 31,2024 : ` 28.14 crores) to the plan during the next financial year.
l)	
The estimates of rate of escalation in salary considered in actuarial valuation are after taking into account inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors including supply and demand in the employment market. The above information is as 
certified by the Actuary. 
m)	
Discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian Government securities as at the balance sheet date for the 
estimated term of the obligations.
n)	
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit 
obligation as a result of reasonable changes in an assumption occurring at the end of the reporting period while holding all 
other assumptions constant. In practice, it is unlikely to occur and change in some of the assumptions may be correlated. 
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method 
(present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting 
period) has been applied as when calculating the defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet. 
Havells India Limited
334
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
o)	
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the prior 
period.
5.	
Segment Reporting 
	
The segment reporting of the Group has been prepared in accordance with Ind AS-108, “Operating Segment” (specified 
under the section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (the Act) read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rule 2015 
(as amended from time to time) and other relevant provision of the Act). For management purposes, the Group is organized 
into business units based on its products and services and has six reportable segments as follows:
a)
Operating Segments
Switchgears
: Domestic and Industrial switchgears, electrical wiring accessories and capacitors. 
Cables
: Domestic cables and Industrial underground cables. 
Lighting and Fixtures
: Energy Saving Lamps (LED, Fixtures) and luminaries. 
Electrical Consumer Durables
: Fans, Water Heaters, Coolers, and Domestic Appliances 
Lloyd Consumer
: Air Conditioner, Television, Refrigerator and Washing Machine 
Others
: Motors, Pump, Water purifier, Solar, Personal Grooming 
	
b)	
Identification of Segments:
	
	
Operating segments have been identified on the basis of the nature of product / services and have been identified as 
per the quantitative criteria specified in the Ind AS. The Board of Directors monitors the operating results of its business 
segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. 
Segment performance is evaluated based on profit or loss and is measured consistently with profit or loss in the financial 
statements.
	
c)	
Revenue and expenses have been identified to a segment on the basis of relationship to operating activities of the 
segment. Revenue and expenses which relate to enterprise as a whole and are not allocable to a segment on reasonable 
basis have been disclosed as “unallocable”.
	
d)	
Segment assets and segment liabilities represent assets and liabilities in respective segments. Investments, tax related 
assets, borrowings and other assets and liabilities that can not be allocated to a segment on reasonable basis have 
been disclosed as “unallocable”.
	
e)	
There is no transfer of products between operating segments.
	
f)	
There are no customers having revenue exceeding 10% of total revenues
	
g)	
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segments.
(` in crores)
Summary of Segmental Information
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
A.
Revenue from operations
Segment Revenue (Sales and other operating revenue)
Switchgears
2,396.80 
 2,246.31 
Cables
7,183.63 
 6,317.57 
Lighting and fixtures
1,670.77 
 1,639.75 
Electrical consumer durables
4,013.85 
 3,482.48 
Lloyd Consumer
5,134.08 
 3,810.30 
Others
1,378.93 
 1,093.60 
21,778.06 
 18,590.01 
Inter Segment Sale
-
-
Total segment revenue
21,778.06 
 18,590.01 
B.
Results
Segment results
Switchgears
539.54 
 596.30 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
335
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Summary of Segmental Information
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cables 
771.50 
 716.05 
Lighting and fixtures
250.67
 247.82 
Electrical consumer durables
399.08 
 387.10 
Lloyd Consumer
117.52 
(166.96)
Others
 25.19 
 24.55 
Segment profit
2,103.50 
 1,804.86 
Reconciliation of segment operating profit to operating profit
Unallocated:
Other unallocable expenses net off 
 (373.04)
 340.27 
Provision no longer required written back (non-recurring)
-
 39.53 
Other unallocable income
303.27 
 248.96 
Operating Profit
2,033.73
 1,753.08 
Finance Costs {refer note 28}
 (43.24)
(45.71)
Profit before tax
1,990.49 
 1,707.37 
Income tax expense {refer note 16}
 (520.25)
(436.61)
Profit after tax 
1,470.24 
 1,270.76 
C.
Reconciliations to amounts reflected in the financial statements
Segment Assets
Switchgears
744.78 
 621.91 
Cables
1,929.50 
 1,568.61 
Lighting and fixtures
703.22 
 660.57 
Electrical consumer durables
1,245.52 
 1,195.05 
Lloyd Consumer
4,488.62
 4,126.90 
Others
455.55 
 325.06 
Segment operating assets
9,567.19
 8,498.10 
Reconciliation of segment operating assets to total assets
Cash and bank balance {10(B) and (C)}
3,378.12 
 3,038.17 
Investments {refer note 6(A)}
 10.98 
 20.00 
Other unallocable assets
853.12 
 876.42 
Total assets
13,809.41 
 12,432.69 
Segment Liabilities
Switchgears
483.22 
 469.64 
Cables
1,183.16 
 1,177.92 
Lighting and fixtures
344.90 
 375.09 
Electrical consumer durables
675.96 
 656.50 
Lloyd Consumer
1,461.26 
 992.80 
Others
276.84 
 229.64 
Segment operating liabilities
4,425.34 
 3,901.59 
Reconciliation of segment operating liabilities to total liabilities
Lease Liabilities{refer note 14(A) and 18(A)}
318.54 
 303.16 
Deferred tax liability {refer note 16(d)}
375.32 
 357.52 
Current tax liabilities (net){refer note 20}
 62.68 
 85.20 
Other unallocable liabilities
286.56
 333.91 
Total liabilities
5,468.44
 4,981.38 
Other non-current assets 
Switchgears
 3.08 
6.91 
Cables 
 38.50 
 10.58 
Havells India Limited
336
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Summary of Segmental Information
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Lighting and fixtures
 0.40 
0.30 
Electrical consumer durables
 3.56 
4.65 
Lloyd Consumer
 30.64 
5.00 
Others
 0.12 
0.30 
 76.31 
 27.74 
Unallocable assets
 20.70 
 118.88 
 97.01 
 146.62 
Capital Expenditure
Switchgears
128.64 
 54.26 
Cables 
170.90 
 251.39 
Lighting and fixtures
 84.60 
 109.40 
Electrical consumer durables
 81.02 
 65.12 
Lloyd Consumer
129.85 
 161.77 
Others
 18.59 
 28.78 
613.60 
 670.72 
Unallocable capital expenditure
211.43 
 41.97 
825.03 
 712.69 
Depreciation and Amortization Expenses
Switchgears
 59.04 
 52.92 
Cables
 92.81 
 75.30 
Lighting and fixtures
33.37 
 21.31 
Electrical consumer durables
 69.42 
 60.82 
Lloyd Consumer
128.80 
 115.24 
Others
 16.96 
 12.91 
400.40 
 338.50 
Non-cash expenses (net) other than depreciation
Switchgears
 3.55 
1.11 
Cables
 7.01 
3.42 
Lighting and fixtures
 30.79 
2.20 
Electrical consumer durables
 1.62 
1.72 
Lloyd Consumer
 15.51 
2.36 
Others
(0.32)
0.53 
 58.80 
 11.34 
Fair value loss on investment
 9.03 
-
 67.83 
 11.34 
Note: Non cash expenses other than depreciation includes loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, bad debts and Impairment 
allowance for trade receivables & Investment and other assets considered doubtful
Segment Revenue by location of customers
The following is the distribution of Group's revenue by geographical market, 
regardless of where the goods were produced.
Revenue-Domestic Market
20,978.09 
 17,986.78 
Revenue-Overseas Market
799.97 
 603.23 
21,778.06 
 18,590.01 
Geographical Segment assets 
Within India
13,486.84 
 12,360.06 
Outside India
322.57 
 72.63
13,809.41 
 12,432.69 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
337
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
Summary of Segmental Information
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Geographical Non-current assets
Within India
4,841.82 
 4,432.81 
Outside India (refer note below)
 25.29 
 0.40 
4,867.11 
 4,433.21 
Note:- Non Current assets are property, plant and equipment situated outside India.
Notes:
(i)	
Finance income and costs on financial assets are not allocated to individual segments as the underlying instruments are managed at Group level.
(ii)	
Current taxes, deferred taxes and certain financial assets and liabilities are not allocated to those segments as they are also managed at 
Group level
(iii)	
Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant and equipment, Capital work in progress and intangible assets
6.	
Related party transactions
	
The related parties as per the terms of Ind AS-24,”Related Party Disclosures”, { under the section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 
(the Act) read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 (as amended from time to time)}, as disclosed below:-
(A)
Names of other related parties :
(i)
Enterprises having significant influence over Group
(iv) Key Management Personnel
QRG Investments and Holding Limited 
Shri Anil Rai Gupta, Chairman and Managing Director 
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Whole-time Director & 
Group CFO 
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, Wholetime Director 
(ii)
Enterprises in which directors are having significant 
influence
Shri Siddhartha Pandit, Wholetime Director 
QRG Enterprises Limited 
Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, Company Secretary 
QRG Foundation 
Guptajee & Company 
Non Executive Directors
SRF Limited 
Shri Puneet Bhatia
Ayana Renewable Power Private Limited 
Shri T V Mohandas Pai
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani
Shri U K Sinha
Shri B P Rao
Shri S S Mundra
Shri Vivek Mehra
Smt Namrata Kaul
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
(iii)
Employee benefit trust for the benefit of employees
(v)
Other Related Parties
Havells India Limited Employees Gratuity Trust
Shri Rakesh Mehrotra
Havells Employees Welfare Trust
- Executive Director
- HKHR Ventures LLP (Partner)
Shri Yogesh Kumar Gupta
- Executive Director
- Eastern Distributors (Partner)
- Gupta Enterprise (Partner)
- YKG Enterprises (Partner)
- OP Gupta and Company (Partner)
- OPG Travels (Partner)
Havells India Limited
338
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
 Year ended
 March 31, 2025 
 Year ended
 March 31, 2024 
(B)
Transactions during the year
(i)
Service Income (refer note (c) below)
Enterprises having significant influence over Group
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
0.38 
 0.10 
0.38 
 0.10 
(ii)
Purchase of goods and stores & spares
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
SRF Limited
47.72 
18.95 
47.72
18.95 
(iii)
Sale of products (refer note (c) below)
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
SRF Limited
0.03 
 3.70 
Ayana Renewable Power Private Limited
 - 
 0.22 
Other Related Parties
OP Gupta and Company
9.96 
 5.12 
9.99
 9.04 
(iv)
Commission on sales (refer note (c) below)
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
Guptajee and Company
23.60 
20.13 
Other Related Parties
Eastern Distributors 
24.32 
21.78 
Gupta Enterprise
1.95 
 2.05 
YKG Enterprises 
2.95 
 2.95 
HKHR Ventures LLP 
51.78 
43.86 
104.60 
90.77 
(v)
Rent / Usage (utilities) Charges Paid
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
QRG Enterprises Limited 
30.11
28.82
30.11 
28.82 
(vi)
Reimbursement of expenses paid
Other Related Parties
OPG Travels
0.53 
 0.95 
0.53 
 0.95 
(vii)
CSR Contribution
Enterprises having significant influence
QRG Foundation 
7.42 
 9.08 
7.42 
 9.08 
(viii)
Contribution to post employee benefit plan
Havells India Limited Employees Gratuity Trust
28.15
29.08
28.15 
29.08 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
339
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in crores)
 Year ended
 March 31, 2025 
 Year ended
 March 31, 2024 
(ix)
Managerial remuneration
Key Management Personnel
Salaries, wages, bonus, commission and other benefits
70.21 
59.17 
Contribution towards PF, Family Pension and ESI
2.57 
 2.21 
Post-employment benefits 
2.35 
 1.45 
ESPP expense 
16.73 
11.23 
Non-Executive Directors
Director sitting fees
0.97 
 1.01 
Commission
1.80 
 1.80 
Remuneration to other Related Parties
Salaries, wages, bonus, commission and other benefits
3.00 
 3.00 
97.63 
79.87 
(C)
Balances at the year end 
(i)
Amount Receivable
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
SRF Limited
- 
 0.03 
-
0.03
(ii)
Amount Payables
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
Guptajee & Company
6.89 
 5.34 
SRF Limited
7.13 
 2.20 
Other Related Parties
Eastern Distributors 
6.94 
 6.27 
Gupta Enterprise
0.62 
 0.65 
OP Gupta and Company
- 
 0.00 
HKHR Ventures LLP
13.96 
10.31 
OPG Travels
0.03 
 0.10 
35.57
24.87
	
a)	
The transactions with related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. 
Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and interest free. The settlement for these balances occurs through 
payment. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables. For the 
year ended March 31, 2025, the Group has not recorded any impairment of receivables relating to amounts owed 
by related parties (March 31, 2024: ` Nil). This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the 
financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
	
b)	
As at March 31, 2025, the Group has not granted any loans to the promoters, directors, KMPs and the related parties 
(as defined under Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person (March 31, 2024: Nil),
	
c)	
Transactions with related parties are reported gross of Goods and Services Tax.
7.	
Share based payments
	
The Group has in place following employee stock purchase plan approved by shareholders of the Group in compliance with 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) regulations, 2021 :
	
(a)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2014 : In accordance with this scheme, 54,274 (March 31, 2024 : 51,376) share 
options of ` 1 each were granted, out of which 53,883 (March 31, 2024: 50,945) share options of ` 1 each were vested 
and allotted on May 31, 2024 (March 31, 2024 : June 08, 2023) to eligible employees at ` 1,644.45 (March 31, 2024: 
` 1,230.20) per share as contributed by these employees. As per the scheme, 50% of the shares are under lock in 
period of 13 months and balance 50% for 2 years. Also as per the scheme, the Group is obliged to pay 50% of the 
contribution made by eligible employees as retention bonus over a period of two years in equal instalments. Accordingly, 
Havells India Limited
340
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
a sum of ` 3.75 crores (March 31, 2024 : ` 2.53 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expense 
(refer note 27).
	
(b)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2015 : In accordance with this scheme, 1,50,000 (March 31, 2024: 1,35,000) 
share options of ` 1 each were granted, vested and allotted on May 31, 2024 (March 31, 2024: June 08, 2023) at 
` 1,644.45 (March 31, 2024: ` 1,230.20) per share to eligible employees. As per the scheme, 78% of the shares are 
under lock in period of 13 months and remaining 22% are under lock in period for 2 years. Accordingly, a sum of ` 24.67 
crores (March 2024 :` 16.61 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expenses (refer note 27).
	
(c)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2016 : In accordance with the said scheme, 41,529 (March 31, 2024: 34,303) 
share options of ` 1 each were granted to eligible employees with graded vesting in three years starting from 2024. 
During the year, 32,157 equity shares of ` 1 each (March 31, 2024 : 20,627equity shares) were allotted at ` 1,644.45 
(March 31, 2024 : `1,230.20) per share on May 31, 2024 (March 31, 2024 : June 08, 2023). Accordingly, a sum of 
` 6.78 crores (March 31,2024: 3.88 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expense (refer note 
28) and balance outstanding of ` 4.30 crores (March 31, 2024 : 2.81 crores) (refer note 13).
	
(d)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2022 : In accordance with the said scheme, 1,11,231 (March 31, 2024: 65,628) 
share options of ` 1 each were granted to eligible employees with graded vesting in five years starting from 2024. 
During the year, 22,662 equity shares of ` 1 each (March 31, 2024 : 8,680 equity shares) were allotted at ` 1,644.45 
(March 31, 2024 : 1,230.20) per share on October 07, 2024 (March 31, 2024 : November 01, 2023). Accordingly, a 
sum of ` 12.68 crores (March 31,2024: 3.98 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expense 
(refer note 27) and balance outstanding of ` 12.71 crores (March 31, 2024 : 3.75 crores) (refer note 13).
	
(i)	
Set out below is a summary of options granted and vested during the year under the plan
2024-25
2023-24
Summary of Stock Options
Number of 
Stock Options
Weighted average 
exercise price per 
share option
Number of 
Stock Options
Weighted average 
exercise price per 
share option
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 96,741 
 - 
 34,691 
 - 
Options granted during the year
 3,57,034 
 1,644.45 
 2,86,307 
 1,230.20 
Options vested and exercised during the year
 (2,58,702)
 1,644.45 
 (2,15,252)
 1,230.20 
Options lapsed during the year
 (31,467)
 - 
 (9,005)
 - 
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 1,63,606 
 - 
 96,741 
 - 
	
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of options exercised during the year ended March 31, 2025 was 
` 1,644.45 per share (March 31, 2024 : ` 1,230.20) per share. For share options outstanding at the end of the year, the fair 
value at grant date of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 was within range of ` 1,601.18 to ` 1,644.00 
per share (March 31, 2024 was within range of ` 1,211.83 to ` 1,222.64 per share).
	
(ii)	
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry dates and exercise prices:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
ESPP Scheme
ESPP 2022
ESPP 2016
ESPP 2022
ESPP 2016
Grant date
April 30, 2024
April 30, 2024
May 02, 2023
May 02, 2023
Expiry date
2025-26 to 
2028-29
2025-26 and 
2026-27
2024-25 to 
2027-28
2024-25 and 
2025-26
Outstanding share options
 1,30,914 
 32,692 
 67,262 
 29,479 
Weighted average remaining contractual life of options 
outstanding at the end of the year
4 years
2 years
4 years
2 years
	
The fair value at grant date of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 was within the range of ` 1,601.18 to 
` 1,644.00 per share (March 31, 2024 was within range of ` 1,211.83 to ` 1,222.64 per share). The fair value at the grant date 
is determined using Black Scholes valuation model which takes into account the exercise price, the terms of the options, the 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
341
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
share price at grant date and expected price volatility of the underlying shares, the expected dividend yield and the risk free 
interest rate for the term of the option.
	
(iii)	 The Model inputs for options granted (ESPP 2016) :
(a)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Expected Price volatility of the Group's share
23.73% to 30.97%
9.87% to 27.31%
Expected Dividend Yield
0.66%
0.59%
Share price at the grant date (`)
1644.45
1230.20
Risk free interest rate
7.16%
7.12%
The Model inputs for options granted (ESPP 2022) :
(b)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Expected Price volatility of the Group's share
29.27% to 30.97%
9.87% to 31.53%
Expected Dividend Yield
0.66%
0.59%
Share price at the grant date
1644.45
1230.20
Risk free interest rate
7.16%
7.12%
	
(iv)	 The expected price volatility is based on the historical volatility (based on remaining life of the options), adjusted for any 
expected change to future volatility due to publicly available information.
	
(v)	
Expense arising from shared based payment transactions
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2014
3.75
2.53
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2015
24.67
16.61
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2016
6.78
3.88
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2022
12.68
3.98
Total expense recognised in the statement of profit and loss account as a 
part of employee benefits expense
47.88
27.00
8.	
Corporate Social Responsibility
	
As per provisions of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Group has to spend at least 2% of average net profits of 
the preceding three financial years towards Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”). Accordingly, a CSR committee has been 
formed for carrying out CSR activities as per the Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013. Details are as under:
	
Details of CSR Expenditure:
Particulars
Year ended
 March 31, 2025
Year ended
 March 31, 2024
Amount required to be spent by the Group during the year
 32.28 
30.21
Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year
 32.28 
30.21
Amount spent during the year on 
i) Construction/ acquisition of assets
 17.60 
14.72
ii) On purpose other than (i) above
Promotion of education, eradicating hunger and sanitation & Hygiene
 9.82 
10.36
Skill Development
 1.69 
1.40
Environmental sustainability
 3.84 
3.40
Others
 - 
0.05
Total CSR Expense
 32.95 
 29.93 
Add : Carried forward from previous year
 0.65 
 0.93 
Less: Excess spent during the year to be carried forward to next year
 1.32 
 0.65 
Amount recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
 32.28 
 30.21 
Details of related party transactions*
 7.42 
 9.08 
* Provided grant to QRG Foundation for Mid day meal, Hygiene and sanitation activities {refer note 32(6)}
Havells India Limited
342
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
Details of ongoing CSR projects under Section 135(6) of the Companies Act 2013
Year
Opening Balance
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent during the year
Closing Balance
With the 
Group
In Separate CSR 
Unspent A/c
From 
Group’s 
 bank account
From Separate 
CSR Unspent 
account
With the 
Group
In Separate 
CSR Unspent 
account
FY2023-24
-
 4.00 
 - 
 - 
 4.00 
 - 
-
FY2024-25
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
Note: The group had earned an interest of ` Nil (` 0.16 crores in March 2024) on the funds in CSR unspent bank account during the year.Further, 
the group has made an additional payment of ` Nil (March 31, 2024: ` 0.79 crores) to Ashoka University, on account of interest earned (net of 
taxes) on amount deposited in separate CSR Bank account (including ` Nil (March 31, 2024 :` 0.16 crores) interest earned during the year). 
	
Details of CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Companies Act 2013 in respect of unspent amount other than 
ongoing projects
Year
Opening Balance 
unspent
Amount deposited in Specified 
Fund of Schedule VII of the 
Act within 6 months
Amount required to be 
spent during 
the year
Amount spent 
during the year
Closing 
balance 
unspent
FY2023-24
-
 - 
 30.21 
 30.21 
-
FY2024-25
-
 - 
 32.28 
 32.28 
-
	
Details of excess CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Companies Act 2013
Year
Opening balance 
excess spent
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent 
during the year
Closing balance 
excess spent
FY2023-24
 0.93 
30.21
29.93
0.65
FY2024-25
 0.65 
32.28
32.95
1.32
9.	
Fair value measurements
	
Set out below, is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group’s financial instruments:
(` in crores)
Carrying Value
Fair Value
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Financial Liabilities valued at amortized cost
Financial assets valued at amortized cost
Cash and bank balances (Current)
 3,378.12 
 3,038.17 
 3,378.12 
 3,038.17 
Trade Receivables
 1,258.72 
 1,165.20 
 1,258.72 
 1,165.20 
Other Financial assets (Current)
 5.65 
 20.99 
 5.65
 20.99 
Other Financial assets (Non-current)
 36.44 
 33.15 
 36.44 
 33.15 
 4,678.92 
 4,257.51 
 4,678.92 
 4,257.51 
Financial Liabilities valued at amortized cost
Trade Payables
 3,046.98 
 2,691.90 
 3,046.98
 2,691.90 
Lease Liability (current and non current)
 318.54 
 303.16 
 318.54 
 303.16 
Other financial liabilities (non-current)
 12.53 
 4.05 
 12.53 
 4.05 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 870.02 
 787.68 
 870.02 
 787.68 
 4,248.07
 3,786.79 
 4,248.07 
 3,786.79 
The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, other current financial assets and 
other current financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
343
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
The fair value of the other financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in 
a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions 
were used to estimate the fair values:
1)	
The fair value of unquoted instruments, other non-current financial assets and non-current financial liabilities is estimated by 
discounting future cash flows (DCF model) using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining 
maturities. The valuation requires management to use unobservable inputs in the model, of which the significant unobservable 
inputs are disclosed in the tables below. Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those 
significant unobservable inputs and determines their impact on the total fair value.
2)	
The fair values of the Group’s interest-bearing borrowings are determined by using DCF method using discount rate that 
reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The own non-performance risk as at March 31, 2025 
was assessed to be insignificant.
3)	
Long-term receivables/payables are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates, risk factors, 
individual creditworthiness of the counterparty and the risk characteristics of the financed project. Based on this evaluation, 
allowances are taken into account for the expected credit losses of these receivables. 
4)	
Fair value hierarchy
	
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation 
technique:
	
Level 1: The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted (unadjusted) market prices at the 
end of the reporting period for identical assets or liabilities
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques 
which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant 
inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. 
This is the case for unlisted equity securities, contingent consideration and indemnification asset included in level 3.
	
There are no transfers among levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.
	
This section explains the judgement and estimates made in determining the fair value of financial assets that are:
	
a)	
Recognised and measured at Fair value
	
b)	
Measured at amortised cost and for which fair value is disclosed in financial statements
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy for assets as on March 31, 2025
Carrying Value
Fair Value
March 31, 2025
Level 1 
Level 2
Level 3
Assets carried at amortized cost for which fair value 
are disclosed
Other Financial assets (Non-current)
 36.44 
 - 
 - 
 36.44 
Other Financial assets (Current)
 5.65
 - 
 - 
 5.65 
Assets carried at fair value though profit and loss
Investment in preference shares
 10.98 
 - 
 10.98 
 - 
Liabilities carried at amortized cost for which fair 
value are disclosed
Lease Liability (current and non current)
 318.54 
 - 
 - 
 318.54 
Other financial liabilities (non-current)
 12.53 
 - 
 - 
 12.53 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 870.02 
 - 
 - 
 870.02 
Havells India Limited
344
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy for assets as on March 31, 2024
Carrying Value
Fair Value
March 31, 2024
Level 1 
Level 2
Level 3
Assets carried at amortized cost for which fair value 
are disclosed
Other Financial assets (non-current)
 33.15 
 - 
 - 
 33.15 
Other Financial assets (current)
 20.99 
 - 
 - 
 20.99 
Assets carried at fair value though profit and loss
Investment in preference shares
 20.00 
 - 
 20.00 
 - 
Liabilities carried at amortized cost for which fair 
value are disclosed
Lease Liability (current and non current)
 303.16 
 - 
 - 
 303.16 
Other financial liabilities (non-current)
 4.05 
 - 
 - 
 4.05 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 787.68 
 - 
 - 
 787.68 
10.	 Financial risk management objectives and policies
	
The Group’s principal financial liabilities comprise lease liabilities, trade and other payables. The main purpose of these financial 
liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group’s principal financial assets include trade and other receivables, and 
cash and cash equivalents that are derived directly from its operations.
	
The Group’s financial risk management is an integral part of how to plan and execute its business strategies. The Group is 
exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
	
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s senior management oversees the management 
of these risks. The senior professionals working to manage the financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance 
framework for the Group are accountable to the Board of Directors and Audit Committee. This process provides assurance 
to Group’s senior management that the Group’s financial risk-taking activities are governed by appropriate policies and 
procedures and that financial risk are identified, measured and managed in accordance with Group policies and Group risk 
objective.
	
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarized as below:
	
(a)	
Market Risk
	
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes 
in market prices. Market prices comprises three types of risk: currency rate risk, interest rate risk and other price risks, 
such as equity price risk and commodity price risk. Financial instruments affected by market risks include deposits, 
investments , and foreign currency receivables and payables. The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to 
the position as at reporting date. The analysis exclude the impact of movements in market variables on: the carrying 
values of gratuity and other post-retirement obligations; provisions; and the non-financial assets and liabilities. The 
sensitivity of the relevant Profit and Loss item and equity is the effect of the assumed changes in the respective market 
risks. This is based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held as of March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024
	
	
(i)	
Foreign Currency Risk
	
	
	
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates 
relates primarily to the Group’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in foreign currency). 
Foreign currency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by purchasing of goods from the respective countries. 
The Group evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from foreign currency transactions and follows established 
risk management policies.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
345
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
	
Foreign currency risk sensitivity
	
	
	
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD,EUR,CNY and other 
currencies including JPY,KES,NPR, CHF, LKR,MWK,AED,SLL and GBP exchange rates, with all other variables 
held constant. The impact on the Group profit before tax and equity is due to changes in the fair value of monetary 
assets and liabilities. Foreign currency exposures recognised by the Group that have not been hedged by a 
derivative instrument or otherwise are as under:
Gain/ (loss)
March 31, 2025
Impact on profit before tax and equity
Currency 
Foreign Currency 
 Indian Rupees 
5% increase
5% decrease
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
United States Dollar 
 $  (2.30)
 (196.76)
 (9.84)
9.84
EURO 
 €  0.22
 20.45
 1.02
(1.02)
Chinese RMB\CNY 
 CNY  (5.60)
 (66.14)
 (3.31)
3.31
Other currencies 
(0.03)
 0.38
 0.02
(0.02)
March 31, 2024
Impact on profit before tax and equity
Currency 
 Foreign Currency 
 Indian Rupees 
5% increase
5% decrease
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
United States Dollar 
 $  (3.40)
 (283.09)
 (14.15)
14.15
EURO 
 €  (0.07)
 (6.29)
 (0.31)
0.31
Chinese RMB\CNY 
 CNY  (5.78)
 (66.57)
 (3.33)
3.33
Other currencies 
(0.40)
 (0.34)
 (0.02)
0.02
Note:
Figures in bracket represents payables
	
	
(ii)	
Interest Rate Risk
	
	
	
Interest rate is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates 
primarily to the Group’s long term debt obligation at floating interest rates. The Group’s does not have any 
outstanding borrowings as at March 31, 2025 and March 31,2024.
	
	
(iii)	 Commodity Price Risk
	
	
	
The Group is affected by the price volatility of certain commodities. Its operating activities require the ongoing 
manufacture of industrial and domestic cable and other electronic items and therefore require a continuous supply 
of copper and aluminium being the major input used in the manufacturing. To mitigate the risk of supply and price 
fluctuations, Domestic and overseas sources are bench-marked to Optimize the allocation of business share 
among various sources. The Group’s Board of Directors has developed and enacted a risk management strategy 
regarding commodity price risk and its mitigation. The Group mitigated the risk of price volatility by entering Long 
Term & Short term contracts for the Purchase of these commodities basis estimated annual requirements.
	
(b)	 Credit Risk
	
	
Credit Risk is the risk that the counter party will not meet its obligation under a financial instrument or customer contract, 
leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) 
and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks, foreign exchange transactions and other financial 
instruments.
Havells India Limited
346
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
(i)	
Trade Receivables and Contract Assets
	
	
	
Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Group’s established policy, procedures 
and control relating to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on 
an extensive credit rating scorecard and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment. 
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any shipments to major customers are generally 
covered by Trade Receivable buyout facility without recourse, letters of credit and other forms of security.
	
	
	
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on trade receivables by lifetime expected credit loss 
method based on provision matrix. The Group does not hold collateral as security. The Group evaluates the 
concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables and contract assets as low, as its customers are located in 
several jurisdictions and industries and operate in largely independent markets.
	
	
	
The group assigns the following internal credit ratings to each class of financial assets based on the assumptions, 
inputs and factors specific to the class of the financial assets. The group provides for expected credit loss based 
on the following:
Internal 
Rating
Category
Description of category 
Basis for recognition of 
expected credit loss provision 
Basis for recognition of 
expected credit loss 
Trade receivables and 
contract assets 
Loans & Deposits
VL 1 
High quality assets, 
negligible credit risk 
Assets where the counterparty has strong 
capacity to meet the obligations and 
where the risk of default is negligible or nil 
Lifetime expected credit 
losses (simplified approach) 
12 months expected 
credit losses
VL 2
Quality assets, low 
credit risk 
Assets where there is low risk of default 
and where the counterparty has sufficient 
capacity to meet the obligations and 
where there has been low frequency of 
defaults in the past 
VL 3
Doubtful assets, 
credit-impaired 
Assets where there is high risk of default 
and there is no reasonable expectation of 
recovery,the group continues to engage in 
enforcement activity to attempt to recover 
the receivable due. Where recoveries are 
made, these are recognised in profit or loss.
100 % provision is 
considered for doubtful 
assets, credit impaired
100 % provision is 
considered for doubtful 
assets, credit impaired
(I)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2025
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues 
 Not due 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
Gross carrying amount – trade 
receivables 
 5.24 
 672.25
 526.95 
 31.21 
 30.50 
 26.76 
 72.57  1,365.48 
(ii)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
– 
contract assets 
 - 
 12.34
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.34 
(iii)
Expected loss rate 
 - 
0.00%
1.30%
16.85%
19.31%
60.43%
100.00%
7.75%
(iv)
Expected credit losses– trade 
receivables 
 - 
 - 
 6.87 
 5.26 
 5.89 
 16.17 
 72.57 
 106.76 
(v)
Expected 
credit 
losses– 
contract assets 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Carrying 
amount 
of 
trade 
receivables (net of impairment) 
 5.24
 672.25
 520.08 
 25.95 
 24.61 
 10.59 
 -  1,258.72 
Carrying amount of contract 
assets (net of impairment) 
 - 
 12.34
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.34
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
347
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(II)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues 
Not 
due 
Less than 
6 months 
6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
More than 
3 years 
Total 
(i)
Gross carrying amount – trade 
receivables 
 - 649.64 
 421.38 
 31.70  51.52 
 35.00 
 72.50  1,261.74 
(ii)
Gross carrying amount – contract assets 
 -  39.85 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 39.85 
(iii)
Expected loss rate 
 - 
0.11%
0.60%
7.05% 19.96%
54.89%
85.93%
7.70%
(iv)
Expected 
credit 
losses– 
trade 
receivables 
 - 
 0.00 
 2.51 
 2.24  10.28 
 19.21 
 62.30 
 96.54 
(v)
Expected credit losses– contract assets 
 - 
 0.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.76 
(vi)
Carrying amount of trade receivables 
(net of impairment) 
 - 649.64 
 418.87 
 29.46  41.24 
 15.79 
 10.20  1,165.20 
Carrying 
amount 
of 
contract 
assets (net of impairment) 
 -  39.09 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 39.09 
(ii)	
Financial instruments and cash deposits
	
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Groups’s treasury department in accordance 
with the Group’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made in bank deposits and other risk free securities. The limits are 
set to minimize the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty’s potential failure to make 
payments. 
	
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at March 31, 2025 is the carrying 
amounts. The Group’s maximum exposure relating to financial instrument is noted in liquidity table below. 
	
Trade Receivables and other financial assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery, such as 
debtor failing to engage in the repayment plan with the Group. 
Financial assets for which allowance is measured using 12 months Expected Credit Loss Method (ECL)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash and cash equivalents (Current)
807.25
 266.10 
Bank balances other than above (Current)
2570.86
 2,772.07 
Others Non Current financial assets
 36.44 
 33.15 
Others Current financial assets
 5.65 
 20.99 
 3,420.20 
 3,092.31 
Financial assets for which allowance is measured using Life time Expected 
Credit Loss Method (ECL)
Trade Receivables
 1,258.72 
 1,165.20 
Contract Assets
 12.34 
 39.09 
 1,271.06 
 1,204.29 
Balances with banks is subject to low credit risks due to good credit ratings assigned to these banks
Havells India Limited
348
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
The ageing analysis of trade receivables has been considered from the date the invoice falls due
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Particulars
Trade Receivables
Unpaid dues
5.24
-
Not past due 
 672.25 
 649.64 
0 to 180 days due past due date
 520.07 
 418.87 
More than 180 days past due date
 61.14 
 96.69 
Total Trade Receivables 
 1,258.70 
 1,165.20 
The following table summarizes the change in loss allowance measured 
using the life time expected credit loss model:-
As at the beginning of year
 97.30 
 87.66 
Addition during the year
 9.46 
 17.66 
Utilization during the year
 (0.01)
 (8.02)
As at the end of year
 106.75 
 97.30 
(c)	
Liquidity risk
	
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group will not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at reasonable price. 
The Group’s objective is to at all times maintain optimum levels of liquidity to meet its cash and liquidity requirements. The 
Group closely monitors its liquidity position and deploys a robust cash management system. It maintains adequate source 
of financing through the use of short term bank deposits, short term loans, short term commercial papers and cash credit 
facility. Processes and policies related to such risks are overseen by senior management. Management monitors the Group’s 
liquidity position through rolling forecasts on the basis of expected cash flows. The Group assessed the concentration of risk 
with respect to its debt and concluded it to be low.
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
The table below provides the details regarding the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date based 
on contractual undiscounted payments.
As at March 31, 2025
 Less than 1 year 
 1 to 5 years  More than 5 years 
 Total 
Other non current financial liabilities
 - 
 12.53 
 - 
 12.53 
Trade payables
 3,046.98 
 - 
 - 
 3,046.98 
Lease Liability (undiscounted)
 102.22 
 244.64 
 118.30 
 465.16 
Other current financial liabilities
 870.02 
 - 
 - 
 870.02 
As at March 31, 2024
 Less than 1 year 
 1 to 5 years  More than 5 years 
 Total 
Other non current financial liabilities
 - 
 4.05 
 - 
 4.05 
Trade payables
 2,691.90 
 - 
 - 
 2,691.90 
Lease Liability (undiscounted)
 93.36 
 200.73 
 93.12 
 387.21 
Other current financial liabilities
 787.68 
 - 
 - 
 787.68 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
349
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
11.	 Capital Management
	
For the purpose of Group’s capital management, Capital includes equity attributable to the equity holders of the Group 
and all other equity reserves. The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to safeguard its ability to 
continue as going concern and to ensure that it maintains an efficient capital structure and maximize shareholder value. 
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the 
requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend 
payment to shareholders or issue new shares. The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. 
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended March 31, 
2025 and March 31, 2024.
(` in crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Cash and cash equivalents {refer note 10(C)}
807.25 
 266.10 
Loans and borrowings
 - 
 - 
Net Debt
 - 
 - 
Equity / Net Worth
 8,323.79 
 7,446.76 
Total Capital
 8,323.79 
 7,446.76 
Gearing ratio (Net Debt/Capital and Net Debt)
NA*
NA*
* This ratio is not relevant for both year as there are no Loans and Borrowings.
12.	 Earnings per share
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
a)
Basic Earnings per share
Numerator for earnings per share
Profit after taxation 
 (` in crores) 
1472.26
1270.76
Denominator for earnings per share
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year
 (Numbers) 
 62,68,90,488 
 62,66,46,898 
Earnings per share-Basic (one equity share of ` 1/- each)
 ` 
 23.49 
 20.28 
b)
Diluted Earnings per share
Numerator for earnings per share
Profit after taxation
 (` in crores) 
1472.26
1270.76
Denominator for earnings per share
Weighted average number of equity shares for basic 
earning per share
 (Numbers) 
 62,68,90,488 
 62,66,46,898 
Effect of dilution
Share options
 (Numbers) 
 1,63,382 
 72,890 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year adjusted for the effect of dilution 
 (Numbers) 
 62,70,53,870 
 62,67,19,788 
Earnings per share- Diluted (one equity share of ` 1/- each)
 ` 
23.48
20.28
Havells India Limited
350
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
13.	 Dividend Paid and Proposed
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Dividend declared and paid during the year:
Final Dividend of ` 6.00 per share for FY 2023-24 (` 4.50 per share for FY 2022-23)
 376.15 
 282.01 
Interim dividend of ` 4.00 per share for FY 2024-25 (` 3.00 per share for FY 2023-24)
 250.78 
 188.00 
 626.93 
 470.01 
Proposed Dividends on equity shares:
Final Dividend recommended by the board of directors for the year ended 
March 31, 2025 ` 6.00 per share of Re 1 each (March 31, 2024: ` 6.00 per 
share of Re 1 each) subject to approval of shareholders in the ensuing annual 
general meeting.
376.17
 376.01 
376.17
 376.01 
Note: Proposed dividends on equity shares are subject to approval at the annual general meeting and are not recognised as liability as at reporting date.
14.	 Disclosure required under Section 186 (4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
Particulars of Investments made:
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Sl. 
No
Name of the Investee
Investment made
Outstanding 
Balance
Investment made
Outstanding 
Balance
1
Havells International Inc.
 41.87 
 62.60 
 20.73 
 20.73 
2
Havells Guangzhou International 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.45 
3
Singularity Furniture Pvt. Ltd*
 - 
 10.98 
 - 
 20.00 
*Fair value loss on financial assets made during the year of ` 9.03 Crores (March 31, 2024: Nil)
15.	 Fire Incident in Neemrana Plant
	
During the current year, the insurance company has fully settled the claim towards loss of property, plant and equipment 
incurred during the fire incident in Neemrana location in July, 2022. As at March 31, 2024, the claim recoverable was ` 15.79 
crores against which the Group has received ` 32.84 crores, being reinstatement value of property, plant and equipment, 
from the insurance company. Accordingly, ` 17.05 crores has been recognised as Other Income {refer Note (23)}.
16.	 The Group has not been declared as a Wilful Defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government authority.
17.	 Struck off Companies: Details of relationship with Companies struck off under Section 248 of Companies Act, 2013 
or Section 560 of the Companies Act, 1956:
Name of the struck off Company
 Nature of 
transaction 
with struck off 
Company 
Balance 
outstanding as at 
March 31, 2025 
(Nos.)
Balance 
outstanding as at 
March 31, 2024 
(Nos.)
 Relation with 
struck off 
Company 
Manilal Patel Private Limited 
(CIN: U17110MH1947PTC005911)
 Shares held by 
struck off company 
35 number of shares 
of ` 1/- each
35 number of shares 
of ` 1/- each
Shareholder 
Multitech System Industrial Automation Private Limited  
(CIN: U28910TN2014PTC097924)
Purchase 
Nil
` 0.01 crore
Vendor 
Naveli Decor Pvt. Ltd. 
(CIN: U52609UP2017PTC099523)
Sales 
Nil
` 0.00 crore
Customer 
Apostle Solutions Private Limited 
(CIN: U74110UP2007PTC032990)
Sales 
Nil
` 0.00 crore
Customer 
Samadhan Srbh Opc Private Limited 
(CIN: U74999UP2020OPC126709)
Sales 
Nil
` 0.00 crore
Customer 
Extreme Automation Pvt Ltd 
(CIN: U29220PN2010PTC135444)
Sales 
` 0.08 crore
` 0.08 crore
Customer 
Ramesh Sales Corporation Pvt.Ltd. 
(CIN: U52390DL2014PTC266899)
Sales 
` 0.21 crore
` 0.21 crore
Customer 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
351
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
18.	 Additional regulatory information required by Schedule III of Companies Act, 2013 
	
(i)	
Details of Benami property: No proceedings have been initiated or are pending against the Group for holding any 
Benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and the rules made thereunder.
	
(ii)	
Utilisation of borrowed funds and share premium: 
	
	
The group, other than below mentioned, has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or 
entity(ies), including foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
	
a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
As at March 31, 2025
Name of Entity / Intermediary 
Amount of 
Investment during 
the year
%age 
Sharholding
Investment 
made by
Relationship with the 
Company 
Havells International Inc., USA, 
(Investment dated 2nd Aug. 2024, 
File No. 2512890) 
USD 5,000,000
100%
Havells India 
Limited
Wholly owned subsidiary 
Havells HVAC LLC, USA ( Investment 
dated 26th and 31st March 2025, File 
No. 2743679) 
USD 1,200,000
80%
Havells 
International 
Inc., USA
Step Down subsidiary 
Havells Lighting LLC, USA 
(Investment dated 07th August. 2024, 
File No. 3295972) 
USD 3,437,500
68.75%
Havells 
International 
Inc., USA
Step Down subsidiary 
As at March 31, 2024
Name of Entity / Intermediary 
Amount of 
Investment during 
the year
%age 
Sharholding
Investment 
made by
Relationship with the 
Company 
Havells International Inc., USA, 
(Investment dated 29th Feb. 2024, 
File No. 2512890) 
USD 2,500,000
100%
Havells India 
Limited
Wholly owned subsidiary 
Havells HVAC LLC, USA ( Investment 
dated 21st March 2024, File No. 
2743679) 
USD 1,600,000
100%
Havells 
International 
Inc., USA
Step Down subsidiary 
	
	
The relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and The Companies Act 2013 have been 
complied with for such transactions and the transactions are not violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 
(15 of 2003).
	
	
The group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
	
	
a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
	
(iii)	
Compliance with number of layers of companies: The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under 
the Companies Act, 2013. read with (Gropu’s restriction on numbers of layers) Rules, 2017.
Havells India Limited
352
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 22, 2025	
Date: April 22, 2025	
Manish Kaushik
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Accounts
	
(iv)	 Compliance with approved scheme(s) of arrangements: The Group has not entered into any scheme of arrangement 
which has an accounting impact in current or previous financial year.
	
(v)	
Undisclosed income: There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in the 
tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books of account.
	
(vi)	 Details of crypto currency or virtual currency: The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency 
during the current or previous year.
	
(vii)	 The Group has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans, repayable on demand.
19.	 The figures have been rounded off to the nearest crore of rupees upto two decimal places. The figure 0.00 wherever stated 
represents value less than ` 50,000/-.
20.	 The group has used accounting software for maintaining its books of account which have a feature of recording audit 
trail(edit log) facility that have operated throughout the financial year for all relevant transactions except: (a) that the audit trail 
for modification, if any, made by users having debug access was enabled from June 17, 2024; and (b) that the audit trail at 
database level did not operate during the period December 31, 2024 to February 28, 2025. This happened because of an 
inadvertent step at service provider’s end to avoid a system outage. However, as confirmed by the service provider, there 
were no changes made at database level during this period. Audit trail at database level, where available, contains modified 
values. There was no instance of audit trail feature being tampered with for the period the audit trail was enabled. The audit 
trail, where enabled, has been preserved as per the statutory requirements.
21.	 Event after Balance sheet date
	
The Group has signed a binding term sheet to invest ` 600 crore in Goldi Solar Private Limited (Goldi) to accelerate growth 
in renewable sector. Goldi is engaged mainly in the business of manufacturing and supply of solar modules and invertors. 
The Group already has presence in solar ecosystem through sale of modules, invertors, solar cables and DC switchgears. 
This is a strategic minority investment to ensure consistent supply of critical solar components like solar modules and cells. 
The Group is expected to have a stake ranging between 8.90%- 9.24% post investment. Transaction is expected to close by 
June 30, 2025, subject to fulfilment of certain Conditions Precedent.
	
This transaction has no impact on these financials.
22.	 Note No.1 to 32 form integral part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
353
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Anil Rai Gupta
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Chairman and Managing Director
Whole-time Director & Group CFO 
DIN: 00011892
DIN: 00002842 
Ameet Kumar Gupta
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Director
Company Secretary
DIN: 00002838
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 22, 2025
Manish Kaushik
Place: Noida
Vice President - Accounts
Form AOC -1
Salient features of Financial Statements of subsidiaries / Joint Ventures pursuant to section 129(3) read with rule Rule 5 of 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
Part “A” : Subsidaries
(` in crores)
Sl. 
No
Name of Subsidiary Company
Havells Guangzhou 
International Limited
Havells 
International Inc.
Havells HVAC LLC
Havells Lighting 
LLC
1
Country
China
USA
USA
USA
2
Reporting currency
Chinese Yen
US Dollar
US Dollar
US Dollar
3
Closing Exchange rate
11.77
85.58
85.58
85.58
4
Reporting date
31/03/2025
31/03/2025
31/03/2025
31/03/2025
5
Share Capital
0.45
62.60
29.49
41.98
6
Other Equity
 4.87 
 (2.33)
 (6.99)
 (1.41)
7
Total Assets
9.09
60.65
22.75
63.93
8
Total Liabilities
3.77
0.38
0.25
23.36
9
Assets - Liabilities
5.32
60.27
22.5
40.57
10
Investment other than Subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
11
Turnover
31.89
 - 
5.11
13.01
12
Profit before Taxation
 (4.17)
 (3.11)
 (7.21)
 (1.86)
13
Provision for Taxation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
14
Profit after Taxation
 (4.17)
 (3.11)
 (7.21)
 (1.86)
15
Other comprehensive income
 0.10 
 1.45 
 0.18 
 0.45 
16
Total Comprehensive Income
 (4.07)
 (1.66)
 (7.03)
 (1.41)
17
Proposed Dividend
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
18
% of shareholding
100%
100%
80%
68.75%
2. Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: None
Part “B” : Joint Ventures
Note:-
1.	 Joint ventures : Company do not have any joint venture as on reporting date
Havells India Limited
354
INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON IDENTIFIED SUSTAINABILITY 
INFORMATION IN HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED’S INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT
To the Board of Directors of Havells India Limited
We have undertaken to perform a limited assurance engagement for Havells India Limited (the “Company”) vide our Engagement 
Letter dated March 28, 2025, in respect of the agreed Sustainability Information referred in “Identified Sustainability Information” 
paragraph below (the “Identified Sustainability Information”) in accordance with the Criteria stated in the “Criteria” paragraph 
below. The Identified Sustainability Information is included in the “GRI Content Index” section in the Integrated Annual Report (the 
“Integrated Annual Report”) of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
This engagement was conducted by a team comprising assurance practitioners and engineer/ environment expert.
Identified Sustainability Information
The Identified Sustainability Information for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, is summarised in Appendix 1 to this report. 
Our limited assurance engagement was only with respect to the Identified Sustainability Information included in the Integrated 
Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
Criteria
The criteria used by the Company to prepare the Identified Sustainability Information in the GRI Content Index for inclusion in the 
Integrated Annual Report is the Global Reporting Initiatives Standards (“GRI Standards”) as set out under Appendix 1 to this report 
(the “Criteria”).
Management’s Responsibilities 
The Company’s Management is responsible for selecting or establishing suitable criteria for preparing the Identified Sustainability 
Information, taking into account applicable laws and regulations related to reporting on the Identified Sustainability Information, 
identification of key aspects, engagement with stakeholders, and content, preparation and presentation of the Identified 
Sustainability Information in accordance with the Criteria. This responsibility includes the design, implementation, and maintenance 
of internal control relevant to the preparation of the Integrated Annual Report and measurement of the Identified Sustainability 
Information, which are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Inherent limitations in preparing the Identified Sustainability Information
The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial information 
allows for different, but acceptable, measures and measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities. 
Our Independence and Quality Control
We have maintained our independence and confirm that we have met the requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) and the International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International 
Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”) issued by the International Ethics Standard Board for Accountants, which is founded 
on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional 
behaviour. 
Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP (the “Firm”) applies Standard on Quality Control 1 “Quality Control for Firms 
that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements”, 
the International Standard on Quality Management (“ISQM”) 1 “Quality Management for Firms that perform Audits or Reviews 
of Financials Statements, or Other Assurance or Related Services Engagements” and ISQM 2 “Engagement Quality reviews”, 
and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
Practitioner’s Responsibilities
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Identified Sustainability Information based on the procedures 
we have performed and evidence we have obtained. 
We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the Standard on Sustainability Assurance Engagements 
(SSAE) 3000, “Assurance Engagements on Sustainability Information” and the Standard on Assurance Engagements (SAE) 3410 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
355
Assurance Report 
“Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”, both issued by the Sustainability Reporting Standards Board of 
the ICAI, and the International Standard on Assurance Engagement (“ISAE”) 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements other 
than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and the ISAE 3410 “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas 
Statements”, both issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (collectively referred to as “the Standards”). 
These Standards require that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Identified 
Sustainability Information is free from material misstatement.
A limited assurance engagement involves assessing the suitability in the circumstances of the Company’s use of the Criteria as the 
basis for the preparation of the Identified Sustainability Information, assessing the risks of material misstatement of the Identified 
Sustainability Information whether due to fraud or error, responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, and 
evaluating the overall presentation of the Identified Sustainability Information.
A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the 
risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the 
assessed risks. 
The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and included inquiries, observation of processes 
performed, inspection of documents, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies and agreeing 
or reconciling with underlying records. 
Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures referred above, we:
•	
Obtained an understanding of the Identified Sustainability Information and related disclosures.
•	
Obtained an understanding of the assessment criteria and their suitability for the evaluation and / or measurements of the 
Identified Sustainability Information. 
•	
Made enquiries of Company’s Management, including those responsible for Sustainability, Environmental Social Governance 
(ESG), Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Human Resource (HR), etc. and those with responsibility for managing the 
Company’s Integrated Annual Report.
•	
Obtained an understanding and performed an evaluation of the key systems and processes for managing, recording and 
reporting on the Identified Sustainability Information including at the sites and corporate office visited. Further, for select 
Identified Sustainability Information, in addition to obtaining an understanding and performing evaluation of certain Information 
Technology General Controls (ITGCs), operating effectiveness of the ITGCs was also tested.
•	
Based on above understanding and the risks that the Identified Sustainability Information may be materially misstated, 
determined the nature, timing and extent of further procedures.
•	
Checked the consolidation for various sites and offices including corporate office under the standalone Reporting Boundary 
(as mentioned in the Integrated Annual Report) for ensuring the completeness of data being reported.
•	
Performed limited substantive testing on a sample basis of the Identified Sustainability Information within the standalone 
Reporting Boundary (as mentioned in the Integrated Annual Report) to verify that data had been appropriately measured with 
underlying documents recorded, collated and reported. This included assessing records and performing testing including 
recalculation of sample data to establish an assurance trail.
•	
Where applicable for the Identified Sustainability Information in the Integrated Annual report, we have relied on the information 
in the audited standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended March 31, 2025 and the underlying books 
and records. 
•	
Assessed the level of adherence to GRI Standards, 2021, by the Company in preparing the Identified Sustainability Information 
in the Integrated Annual Report.
•	
Assessed the Integrated Annual Report for detecting, on a test basis, any major anomalies between the information reported 
in the Integrated Annual Report on performance with respect to Identified Sustainability Information and relevant source data/ 
information.
•	
Evaluated the reasonableness and appropriateness of significant estimates and judgements made by the Management in the 
preparation of the Identified Sustainability Information.
•	
Obtained written representations from the Company’s Management. 
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, 
a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is 
Havells India Limited
356
substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. 
Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether the Identified Sustainability Information has been 
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria.
Exclusions
Our limited assurance scope excludes the following and, therefore, we do not express a conclusion on the same:
•	
Operations of the Company other than the Identified Sustainability Information listed in Appendix 1 to this report.
•	
Aspects of the Integrated Annual Report and data/ information (qualitative or quantitative) included in the Integrated Annual 
Report other than the Identified Sustainability Information.
•	
Data and information outside the defined reporting period, i.e., the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
•	
The statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intentions provided by the 
Company and testing or assessing any forward-looking assertions and/ or data.
Limited Assurance Conclusion
Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that 
the Company’s Identified Sustainability Information summarised in Appendix 1 and included in the Integrated Annual Report for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria. 
Restriction on Use 
Our obligations in respect of this report are entirely separate from, and our responsibility and liability is in no way changed by, any 
other role we may have (or may have had) as auditors of the Company or otherwise. Nothing in this report, nor anything said or 
done in the course of or in connection with the services that are the subject of this report, will extend any duty of care we may have 
in our capacity as auditors of the Company. 
This report has been issued at the request of the Board of Directors of the Company to whom it is addressed, solely to assist the 
Company in reporting Company’s sustainability performance and activities, and for publishing the same in the Integrated Annual 
Report. Our report should not be used for any other purpose or by any person other than the addressees of our report. Price 
Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP does not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose 
or to any person other than the Company.
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/E300009
Heman Sabharwal
Partner
Place: Gurugram
Membership Number: 093263
Date: April 22, 2025
UDIN: 25093263BMZYNP4912
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
357
Assurance Report 
Appendix 1  
Identified Sustainability Information
S. No.
GRI No
GRI Title
1
305-6 
Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
2
305-7
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions
3
401-1 
New employee hires and employee turnover
4
401-3 
Parental leave
5
403-1 
Occupational health and safety management system 
6
404-1 
Average hours of training per year per employee
7
404-3 
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews
8
405-1 
Diversity of governance bodies and employees
9
405-2 
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men
10
401-2 
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees
11
403-5 
Worker training on occupational health and safety
12
403-8
Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 
13
404-2 
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs
Havells India Limited
358
We have undertaken to perform a reasonable assurance engagement for Havells India Limited (the “Company”) vide our 
Engagement Letter dated March 28, 2025, in respect of the agreed Sustainability Information referred in “Identified Sustainability 
Information” paragraph below (the “Identified Sustainability Information”) in accordance with the Criteria stated in the “Criteria” 
paragraph below. The Identified Sustainability Information is included in the: 
(a)	
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) section in the Integrated Annual Report of the Company for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025, (the “Integrated Annual Report”) pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 34(2)(f) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as 
amended) (the “LODR Regulations”).
(b)	
“GRI Content Index” section in the Integrated Annual Report of the Company. 
This engagement was conducted by a team comprising assurance practitioners and engineer/ environment expert.
Identified Sustainability Information
The Identified Sustainability Information for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, is summarised in Appendix 1 and Appendix 
2 to this report. 
Our reasonable assurance engagement was only with respect to the Identified Sustainability Information included in the Integrated 
Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025. 
Criteria
The criteria used by the Company to prepare the Identified Sustainability Information are as follows:
(a)	
for the information summarised in Appendix 1 to this report, the criteria used is the “BRSR Core”, which is a subset of the 
BRSR, consisting of a set of Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)/ metrics under nine Environmental, Social and Governance 
(“ESG”) attributes, as per the format of BRSR Core specified in Annexure 17A read with the format of BRSR and the 
guidance note given in Annexure 16 and 17, respectively, of the SEBI Master Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/0155 dated 
November 11, 2024, and the ‘Industry Standards on Reporting of BRSR Core’ issued by SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD-
PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177 dated December 20, 2024 (collectively referred to as the “SEBI Circulars”); and 
(b)	
for the information summarised in Appendix 2 to this report, the criteria used is the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (the 
“GRI Standards”).
Management’s Responsibilities
The Company’s Management is responsible for determining the Reporting Boundary of the Integrated Annual Report including 
the BRSR, and for selecting or establishing suitable criteria for preparing the Identified Sustainability Information, taking into 
account applicable laws and regulations including the SEBI Circulars and the GRI Standards related to reporting on the Identified 
Sustainability Information, identification of key aspects, engagement with stakeholders, and content, preparation and presentation 
of the Identified Sustainability Information in accordance with the Criteria. This responsibility includes design, implementation, and 
maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of the Integrated Annual Report, which includes the BRSR, and the 
measurement of Identified Sustainability Information, which is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The 
Management and the Board of Directors of the Company are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s compliance with the 
requirements of LODR Regulations and the SEBI Circulars in relation to the BRSR Core and the GRI Standards in relation to the 
sustainability information in the Integrated Annual Report.
Inherent Limitations in preparing the Identified Sustainability Information
The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial information 
allows for different, but acceptable, measures and measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities. In 
addition, Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge 
used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases.
INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S REASONABLE ASSURANCE REPORT ON IDENTIFIED SUSTAINABILITY 
INFORMATION IN HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED’S INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT, WHICH INCLUDES THE 
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
To the Board of Directors of Havells India Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
359
Assurance Report 
Our Independence and Quality Control
We have maintained our independence and confirm that we have met the requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) and the International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International 
Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”) issued by the International Ethics Standard Board for Accountants, which is founded 
on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional 
behaviour. 
Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP (the “Firm”) applies Standard on Quality Control 1, “Quality Control for Firms 
that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements”, 
the International Standard on Quality Management (“ISQM”) 1 “Quality Management for Firms that perform Audits or Reviews 
of Financials Statements, or Other Assurance or Related Services Engagements” and ISQM 2 “Engagement Quality reviews”, 
and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
Practitioner’s Responsibilities
Our responsibility is to express a reasonable assurance opinion on the Identified Sustainability Information based on the procedures 
we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. 
We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Standard on Sustainability Assurance Engagements (“SSAE”) 3000, 
“Assurance Engagements on Sustainability Information” and the Standard on Assurance Engagements (“SAE”) 3410, “Assurance 
Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”, both issued by the Sustainability Reporting Standards Board of the ICAI, and 
the International Standard on Assurance Engagement (“ISAE”) 3000 (Revised), “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and the ISAE 3410 “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”, both 
issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (collectively referred to as “the Standards”). 
These Standards require that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Identified 
Sustainability Information is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria. A reasonable assurance engagement 
involves assessing the risks of material misstatement of the Identified Sustainability Information whether due to fraud or error 
and responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances and evaluating the overall presentation of the Identified 
Sustainability Information.
The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement, and included inquiries, observation of processes 
performed, inspection of documents, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and 
agreeing or reconciling with underlying records.
Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures referred above, we:
•	
Obtained an understanding of the Identified Sustainability Information and related disclosures.
•	
Obtained an understanding of the assessment criteria and their suitability for the evaluation and / or measurements of the 
Identified Sustainability Information.
•	
Made enquiries of the Company’s Management, including those responsible for Sustainability, Environmental Social 
Governance (‘ESG’), Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’), Human Resources (HR), etc., and those with responsibility for 
managing the Company’s Integrated Annual Report which includes the BRSR
•	
Obtained an understanding and performed an evaluation of the design of the key systems, processes, and controls for 
managing, recording and reporting on the Identified Sustainability Information including at the sites and corporate office 
visited. Further, for select Identified Sustainability Information, in addition to obtaining an understanding and performing 
evaluation of certain Information Technology General Controls (ITGCs), operating effectiveness of the ITGCs was also tested.
•	
Based on above understanding and the risks that the Identified Sustainability Information may be materially misstated, 
determined the nature, timing and extent of further procedures.
•	
Checked the consolidation for various sites and corporate office under the standalone Reporting Boundary (as mentioned in 
the Integrated Annual Report, which includes BRSR) for ensuring the completeness of data being reported.
•	
Performed substantive testing on a sample basis of the Identified Sustainability Information within the standalone 
Reporting Boundary to verify that data had been appropriately measured with underlying documents recorded, collated 
and reported. This included assessing records and performing testing including recalculation of sample data to establish 
as assurance trail. 
Havells India Limited
360
•	
Assessed the level of adherence to the BRSR Core and GRI Standards followed by the Company in preparing the Integrated 
Annual Report which includes the BRSR.
•	
Assessed the Integrated Annual Report, which includes the BRSR, for detecting, on a test basis, any major anomalies 
between the information reported in the Integrated Annual Report, which includes the BRSR on performance with respect to 
Identified Sustainability Information and relevant source data/ information.
•	
Where applicable for the Identified Sustainability Information in the Integrated Annual Report, which includes the BRSR, we 
have relied on the information in the audited standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended March 31, 
2025 and the underlying books and records.
•	
Evaluated the reasonableness and appropriateness of significant estimates and judgements made by the Management in the 
preparation of the Identified Sustainable Information.
•	
Obtained written representations from the Company’s Management.
Exclusions
Our reasonable assurance scope excludes the following and, therefore, we do not express an opinion on the same:
•	
Operations of the Company other than the Identified Sustainability Information listed in Appendix 1 and 2 to this report.
•	
Aspects of the Integrated Annual Report and data/ information (qualitative or quantitative) included in the Integrated Annual 
Report other than the Identified Sustainability Information.
•	
Data and information outside the defined reporting period, i.e., the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
•	
The statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intentions provided by the 
Company and testing or assessing any forward-looking assertions and/ or data.
Opinion
Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, the Company’s Identified Sustainability Information summarised 
in Appendix 1 and 2 to this report and included in the Integrated Annual Report, which includes the BRSR, for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2025, are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria specified in sub-paragraph (a) and 
(b) of the “Criteria” section of our report, respectively. 
Restriction on Use 
Our obligations in respect of this report are entirely separate from, and our responsibility and liability is in no way changed by, any 
other role we may have (or may have had) as auditors of the Company or otherwise. Nothing in this report, nor anything said or 
done in the course of or in connection with the services that are the subject of this report, will extend any duty of care we may have 
in our capacity as auditors of the Company. 
This report has been issued at the request of the Board of Directors of the Company to whom it is addressed, solely to enable them 
to comply with the requirements of the SEBI Circulars and LODR Regulations, on reporting Company’s sustainability performance 
and activities, and for publishing the same in the Company’s Integrated Annual Report, which includes the BRSR. Our report 
should not be used for any other purpose or by any person other than the addressees of our report. Price Waterhouse & Co 
Chartered Accountants LLP does not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose or to any person 
other than the Company.
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/E300009
Heman Sabharwal
Partner
Place: Gurugram
Membership Number: 093263
Date: April 22, 2025
UDIN: 25093263BMZYNO3377
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
361
Assurance Report 
Appendix 1
Identified Sustainability Information (BRSR Core Indicators)
S. No.
Principle/ Indicator 
Reference*
Attribute
Parameters (KPIs) Assured
1.
Principle 6 – E7
 
Green-house gas 
(GHG) footprint
1.	
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) 
2.	
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG (CO2e) into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
3.	
GHG Emission Intensity (Scope 1 +2)
	
a)	
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (MT) / Total 
Revenue from Operations adjusted for PPP
	
b)	
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (MT) / Total Output 
of Product or Services
2.
Principle 6 – E3 
Principle 6 – E4
Water footprint
1.	
Total water consumption
2.	
Water consumption intensity
	
a)	
Water Intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for PPP
	
b)	
Water Intensity in terms of physical output
3.	
Water Discharge by destination and levels of treatment
3.
Principle 6 – E1
 
Energy Footprint
1.	
Total Energy Consumed
2.	
% of energy consumed from renewable sources
3.	
Energy intensity
	
a)	
Energy Intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for PPP
	
b)	
Energy Intensity in terms of physical output
4.
Principle 6 – E9
 
Embracing circularity- 
details related to 
waste management 
by the entity
1.	
Plastic waste (A)
2.	
E-waste (B)
3.	
Bio-medical waste (C)
4.	
Construction and demolition waste (D)
5.	
Battery waste (E)
6.	
Radioactive waste (F)
7.	
Other Hazardous waste (G)
8.	
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H)
9.	
Total waste generated ((A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
10.	 Waste intensity
	
a)	
Waste Intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for PPP
	
b)	
Waste Intensity in terms of physical output
11.	 For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered 
through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations
12.	 For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed 
by nature of disposal method
5.
Principle 3 – E1 (c)
Principle 3 – E11
Enhancing employee 
wellbeing and Safety
1.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and 
workers- cost incurred as a % of total revenue of the company.
2.	
Details of safety related incidents for employees and workers 
(including contract-workforce)
a)	
Number of Permanent Disabilities
b)	
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person 
hours worked)
c)	
No. of fatalities
Havells India Limited
362
S. No.
Principle/ Indicator 
Reference*
Attribute
Parameters (KPIs) Assured
6.
Principle 5 – E3 (b)
Principle 5 – E7
Enabling Gender 
Diversity in Business
1.	
Gross wages paid to females as a % of wages paid
2.	
Complaints on POSH
	
a)	
Total Complaints on Sexual Harassment (POSH) reported.
	
b)	
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
	
c)	
Complaints on POSH upheld
7.
Principle 8 – E4
Principle 8 – E5
Enabling Inclusive 
Development
1.	
Input material sourced from following sources as % of total 
purchases –Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers 
and from within India.
2.	
Job creation in smaller towns- wages paid to people employed 
in smaller towns (permanent or non-permanent/on contract) as 
% of total wage cost
8.
Principle 9 – E7
Principle 1 – E8
Fairness in Engaging 
with Customers and 
Suppliers
1.	
Instances involving loss/ breach of data of customers as a 
percentage of total data breaches or cyber security events.
2.	
Number of days of accounts payable
9.
Principle 1 – E9
Open-ness of 
business
1.	
Concentration of purchases & sales done with trading houses, 
dealers, and related parties
	
a)	
Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
	
b)	
Number of trading houses where purchases are made 
from
	
c)	
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses
	
d)	
Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales 
	
e)	
Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made
	
f)	
Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers / distributors
2.	
Loans and advances & investments with related parties
	
Share of RPTs (as respective %age) in-
	
a)	
Purchases
	
b)	
Sales
	
c)	
Loans & advances
	
d)	
Investments
*‘E’ denotes Essential Indicator
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
363
Assurance Report 
S. No.
GRI No.
GRI Title
1
302-1 
Energy consumption within the organization
2
302-3 
Energy intensity
3
303-3 
Water Withdrawal
4
303-4
Water discharge
5
303-5 
Water Consumption
6
305-1 
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
7
305-2 
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
8
305-4 
GHG emissions intensity (Basis Scope1 and Scope 2 emissions)
9
306-4 
Waste diverted from disposal
10
306-5 
Waste directed to disposal
11
403-9 
Work-related injuries
Appendix 2
Identified Sustainability Information (GRI Indicators)
Havells India Limited
364
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
365
GRI Content Index 
GRI Content Index 2024-25
Statement of use
Havells India Ltd has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period between April 01, 2024 to 
March 31, 2025, with reference to the GRI Standards (GRI 1: Foundation 2021).
GRI Standard Disclosure Title
Section
Page Number
GRI  2: General Disclosures 2021
2-1
Organizational details
Company Overview
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
8, 10
127
2-2
Entities included in the organization’s 
sustainability reporting
About this Report
5
2-3
Reporting period, frequency and 
contact point
About this Report
5
2-4
Restatements of information
In the FY 2024-25 Integrated Report, the following 
figures are being restated (IR FY 2023-24):
1.	 ESI (Employees) - 1.65%
2.	 ESI (Worker) - 63.49%
3.	 PF (Workers) - 100%
4.	 Gratuity (Workers) - 92.7%
5.	 Other NPS (Employees) - 3.55%
6.	 LTRI (Employees) - 1.62%
137
2-5
External assurance
About this Report
Assurance Report
6
355-364
2-6
Activities, value chain and other 
business relationships
Product Portfolio
Value Creation Model
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
11-13
16-17
127
2-7
Employees
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
129
2-8
Workers who are not employees
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
129
2-9
Governance structure and 
Composition
Governance – Board of Directors Report on 
Corporate Governance
92 - 93
168 -176
2-10
Nomination and selection of the 
highest governance body
Directors’ Report
Annexure 1 – Directors’ Report
98
107-110
2-11
Chair of the highest governance body
Governance – Board of Directors
92 - 93
2-12
Role of the highest governance body 
in overseeing the management of 
impacts
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
131, 142
2-13
Delegation of responsibility for
managing impacts
Governance – Board of  Directors 
Report on Corporate Governance
92 - 93
173 – 179
2-14
Role of the highest governance body 
in sustainability reporting
Governance – Board of Directors 
Report on Corporate Governance
93
178 - 179
2-15
Conflicts of interest
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
133
2-16
Communication of critical concerns
Stakeholder Engagement
Director's Report
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
32-33
102
130
2-17
Collective knowledge of the highest 
governance body
Report on Corporate Governance
171 -172
2-18
Evaluation of the performance of the 
highest governance body
Directors’ Report
99
2-19
Remuneration policies
Annexure I to Directors' Report
Report on Corporate Governance
107-110
177-178
2-20
Process to determine remuneration
Annexure I to Directors' Report
Report on Corporate Governance
107-110
177 -178
Havells India Limited
366
GRI Standard Disclosure Title
Section
Page Number
2-21
Annual total compensation ratio
Annexure 4 of Directors’ Report
121
2-22
Statement on sustainable
development strategy
Message from the Chairman and Managing
Director
14
2-23
Policy commitments
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
131-132
2-24
Embedding policy commitments
Value Creation Story
16 -28
2-25
Processes to remediate negative 
Impacts
Value Creation Story
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
16 -28
130
2-26
Mechanisms for seeking advice and 
raising concerns
Directors’ Report
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
102
130
2-27
Compliance with laws and regulations
Materiality
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
37
133, 152
2-28
Membership associations
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
155
2-29
Approach to stakeholder engagement
Stakeholder Engagement
32
2-30
Collective bargaining agreements
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
138
GRI  3: Material Topics 2021
3-1
Process to determine material topics
Materiality
34
3-2
List of material topics
Materiality
34
3-3
Management of material topics
Materiality
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
34
130 – 159
GRI  201: Economic Performance 2016
201-1
Direct economic value generated and
Distributed
Financial Capital
Directors’ Report
39 - 40
101
201-2
Financial implications and other risks 
and opportunities due to climate 
change
Enterprise Risk Management
Natural Capital
Directors’ Report
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
20 - 28
87 - 88
122
134, 151
201-3
Defined benefit plan obligations and
other retirement plans
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
Financial Reports
137, 141, 144
222
201-4
Financial assistance received from
Government
Financial Statements
191-355
GRI  202 - Market Presence 2016
202-1
Ratios of standard entry level wage  
by gender compared to local 
minimum wage
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
144
202-2
Proportion of senior management 
hired from the local community
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
156
GRI  203 - Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
203-1
Infrastructure investments and 
services supported
Social and Relationship Capital
74
203-2
Significant indirect economic impacts
Social and Relationship Capital
74
GRI  204: Procurement Practices 2016
204-1
Proportion of spending on local 
suppliers
Social and Relationship Capital
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Reporting
81
156
GRI  205: Anti-corruption 2016
205-1
Operations assessed for risks related 
to corruption
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
133
205-2
Communication and training about 
anti-corruption policies and procedures
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
132
205-3
Confirmed incidents of corruption and 
actions taken
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
133
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
367
GRI Content Index 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title
Section
Page Number
GRI  206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016
206-1
Legal actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 
practices
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
155
GRI  207: Tax 2019
207-1
Approach to tax
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
198-199
207-2
Tax governance, control, and risk 
management
Enterprise Risk Management
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
20
198-199
207-3
Stakeholder engagement and 
management of concerns related to tax
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
198-199
GRI  301: Materials 2016
301-2
Recycled input materials used
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
136
301-3
Reclaimed products and their 
packaging materials
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
136
GRI  302: Energy 2016
302-1
Energy consumption within the 
organization
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
147
302-2
Energy consumption outside of the 
organization
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
87
147
302-3
Energy intensity
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
147
302-4
Reduction of energy consumption
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
87
147
302-5
Reductions in energy requirements of 
products and services
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
153
GRI  303: Water and Effluents 2018
303-1
Interactions with water as a shared 
resource
Natural Capital
88
303-2
Management of water discharge 
related impacts
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
148 – 149
303-3
Water withdrawal
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
88
148, 152
303-4
Water discharge
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
88
148 – 149
152
303-5
Water consumption
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
88
148 – 149
152
GRI  304: Biodiversity 2016
304-1
Operational sites owned, leased, 
managed in, or adjacent to, protected 
areas and areas of high biodiversity 
value outside protected areas
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
90
152 - 153
304-2
Significant impacts of activities, 
products and services on biodiversity
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
90
152 - 153
304-3
Habitats protected or restored
Natural Capital
90
304-4
IUCN Red List species and national 
conservation list species with habitats 
in areas affected by operations
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
90
152 - 153
Havells India Limited
368
GRI Standard Disclosure Title
Section
Page Number
GRI  305: Emissions 2016
305-1
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
150
305-2
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
150
305-3
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 
emissions
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
153
305-4
GHG emissions intensity
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
150
305-5
Reduction of GHG emissions
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
87 - 88
150
305-6
Emissions of ozone-depleting 
substances (ODS)
Limited assurance report
Appendix-1
355-357
358
305-7
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides 
(SOx), and other significant air 
emissions
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
150
GRI  306: Waste 2020
306-1
Waste generation and significant 
waste-related impacts
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
89-91
151
306-2
Management of significant waste-
related impacts
Natural Capital
89-91
306-3
Waste generated
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
151
306-4
Waste diverted from disposal
Natural Capital
89
306-5
Waste directed to disposal
Natural Capital
89
GRI  308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
308-1
New suppliers that were screened 
using environmental criteria
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
135
308-2
Negative environmental impacts in the 
supply chain and actions taken
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
136
GRI  401: Employment 2016
401-1
New employee hires and employee 
turnover
Human Capital
45
401-2
Benefits provided to full-time 
employees that are not provided to 
temporary or parttime employees
Human Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
55
136-137
401-3
Parental leave
Human Capital
56
GRI  402: Labor/Management Relations 2016
402-1
Minimum Notice Periods regarding 
operational changes
The Prescribed notice given to employees 
pertaining to various Labour Acts are adhered 
with, prior to the implementation of any significant 
operational changes that could substantially 
affect them
368
GRI  403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
403-1
Occupational health and safety 
management system
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
139
403-2
Hazard identification, risk assessment, 
and incident investigation
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
139 - 142
403-3
Occupational health services
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
139-142
403-4
Worker participation, consultation, 
and communication on occupational 
health and safety
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
139-142
403-5
Worker training on occupational
health and safety
Human Capital	
Directors’ Report
56
104
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
369
GRI Content Index 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title
Section
Page Number
403-6
Promotion of worker health
Human Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
56
139-142
403-7
Prevention and mitigation of 
occupational health and safety impacts 
directly linked by business relationships
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
139-142
403-8
Workers covered by an occupational 
health and safety management system
Directors’ Report
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
104
139-142
403-9
Work-related injuries
Human Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
57
140-141
403-10
Work-related ill health
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
140-141
GRI  404: Training and Education 2016
404-1
Average hours of training per year per 
employee
Human Capital
51
404-2
Programs for upgrading employee 
skills and transition assistance 
programs
Human Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
48 – 51
141
404-3
Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance and career 
development reviews
Human Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
53
139
GRI  405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
405-1
Diversity of governance bodies and 
employees
Human Capital
58-59
405-2
Ratio of basic salary and
remuneration of women to men
Human Capital
59
GRI  406: Non-discrimination 2016
406-1
Incidents of discrimination and
corrective actions taken
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
145
GRI  407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016
407-1
Operations and suppliers in which the 
right to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining may be at risk
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
138
GRI  408: Child Labor 2016
408-1
Operations and suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of child labor
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
145
GRI  409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016
409-1
Operations and suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
145
GRI  410: Security Practices 2016
410-1
Security personnel trained in human 
rights policies or procedures
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
143
GRI  411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016
411-1
Incidents of violations involving rights 
of indigenous peoples
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
143
Havells India Limited
370
GRI Standard Disclosure Title
Section
Page Number
GRI  413: Local Communities 2016
413-1
Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, 
and development programs
Social and Relationship Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
74-79
143
413-2
Operations with significant actual and 
potential negative impacts on local 
communities
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
143
GRI  414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
414-1
New suppliers that were screened 
using social criteria
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
135
414-2
Negative social impacts in the supply 
chain and actions taken
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
135, 146
GRI  415: Public Policy 2016
415-1
Political contributions
We do not make any monetary and in-kind 
contribution to any political parties. Our political 
contribution for FY 25
was Zero.
370
GRI  416: Customer Health and Safety 2016
416-1
Assessment of the health and safety 
impacts of product and service categories
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
159
416-2
Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning the health and safety 
impacts of products and services
Materiality
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
37
159
GRI  417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
417-1
Requirements for product and service
information and labelling
Materiality
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
37
159
417-2
Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning product and service 
information and labelling
Materiality
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
37
159
417-3
Incidents of non-compliance
concerning marketing communications
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
159
GRI  418: Customer Privacy 2016
418-1
Substantiated complaints concerning
breaches of customer privacy and 
losses of customer data
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
159
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
371
Progress at a Glance of Last 10 Years- Havells India Limited (Standalone)
(` in Crores)
Performance for the Financial Year
2016
2017
2018
2019**
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
Turnover (Gross)*
 5,775.42 
 6,585.96 
 8,260.27 
 10,067.71 
 9,429.20 
 10,427.92 
 13,889.00 
 16,868.38 
 18,549.90 
 21,745.81 
Less: Excise Duty
 397.10 
 450.70 
 121.70 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Turnover (Net)
 5,378.32 
 6,135.26 
 8,138.57 
 10,067.71 
 9,429.20 
 10,427.92 
 13,889.00 
 16,868.38 
 18,549.90 
 21,745.81 
Profitability
Earnings Before Interest, Depreciation, 
Taxes and Amortisation
 754.93 
 824.14 
 1,049.29 
 1,183.83 
 1,027.38 
 1,565.26 
 1,757.61 
 1,602.96 
 1,845.29 
 2,148.58 
Profit before Tax
 909.03 
 768.83 
 1,014.70 
 1,146.10 
 901.73 
 1,431.58 
 1,603.79 
 1,450.25 
 1,709.83 
 2,009.09 
Profit After Tax
 712.03 
 539.04 
 712.52 
 787.34 
 733.03 
 1,039.64 
 1,194.73 
 1,074.95 
 1,273.21 
 1,488.84 
Financial Position
Share Capital 
 62.46 
 62.49 
 62.51 
 62.55 
 62.58 
 62.60 
 62.63 
 62.65 
 62.67 
 62.69 
Other Equity
 2,891.21 
 3,211.09 
 3,676.64 
 4,129.65 
 4,242.23 
 5,101.85 
 5,926.01 
 6,551.83 
 7,375.78 
 8,268.30 
Loan funds
 44.40 
 198.05 
 108.00 
 94.50 
 40.50 
 492.20 
 395.53 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other Liabilities
 1,004.65 
 1,374.60 
 2,487.31 
 2,468.27 
 2,267.56 
 2,658.64 
 3,629.31 
 3,832.27 
 4,278.53 
 4,760.55 
Gross Block 
 1,328.52 
 1,452.27 
 3,111.48 
 3,635.37 
 4,142.81 
 4,286.37 
 4,620.73 
 5,168.68 
 5,981.95 
 6,778.65 
Net Block
 1,208.56 
 1,221.74 
 2,755.42 
 3,136.49 
 3,435.55 
 3,380.21 
 3,490.71 
 3,786.98 
 4,286.51 
 4,745.15 
Total investments
 309.61 
 227.41 
 41.70 
 1.66 
 1.63 
 1.63 
 1.63 
 20.45 
 41.18 
 74.03 
Cash and Bank Balance
 1,365.21 
 1,937.53 
 1,526.17 
 1,287.71 
 1,106.92 
 1,931.04 
 2,982.14 
 2,157.98 
 3,015.42 
 3,352.58 
Other Assets
 1,205.60 
 1,573.31 
 2,218.12 
 2,699.80 
 2,503.76 
 3,507.34 
 4,030.68 
5,177.79
 5,076.72 
 5,603.19 
Earning per share
Basic EPS (`)
 11.40 
 8.63 
 11.40 
 12.59 
 11.71 
 16.61 
 19.08 
 17.16 
 20.32 
 23.75 
Diluted EPS (`)
 11.40 
 8.63 
 11.40 
 12.59 
 11.71 
 16.61 
 19.08 
 17.16 
 20.32 
 23.74 
Note: The financial results summary for financial years 2015-16 and onwards  are prepared in accordance with Ind-AS.
*Turnover gross is after deducting turnover discount, incentive and rebates.
** The Company has received approval from the NCLT on January 31, 2020 in respect of a Scheme of Amalgamation, among the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries namely; Promptec Renewable 
Energy Solutions Private Limited, Havells Global Limited, Standard electrical Limited, LLOYD Consumer Private Limited. Appointed date as per scheme is April 01, 2018 and accordingly the figures for 
FY 2018-19 have been restated.
Havells India Limited
Regd. Office: 904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building, K.G. Marg,
Connaught Place, New Delhi - 110 001 (India)
Corp. Office: QRG Towers, 2D, Sector 126, Expressway, Noida - 201 304 (U.P.)
Ph.: +91-120-3331000 | Email: marketing@havells.com
www.havells.com
For Investors Queries
Email: investors@havells.com
For Consumer Complaint Contact
Consumer Care No.: 08045771313 (Havells)  
08045775666 (Lloyd), 9711773333 (WhatsApp) or Scan QR
Email: customercare@havells.com
CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304
