Page 1 of 1 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED (A GSPC Group Company- Government of Gujarat Undertaking)  
Corporate Office: 2, Shanti Sadan Society, Near Parimal Garden, Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad - 380 006. Gujarat, India.  
Tel.: +91-79-26462980, 26460095 Fax : +91-79-26466249  
Registered Office: Gujarat Gas CNG Station, Sector-5/C, Gandhinagar - 382 006, Gujarat, India. Tel.: +91-79-23264777, 23264999  
Website : www.gujaratgas.com, www.gspcgroup.com CIN : L40200GJ2012SGC069118 
 
 
              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                      
 
 
GGL/SEC/1166/2023 
 
 
 
             
     2nd  September, 2023 
 
BSE Limited, 
Phiroze Jijibhoy Tower, 
Dalal Street, Mumbai 
 
 
Company Code: BSE-GUJGAS  
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor, Plot No. C/1, G 
Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051 
 
Company Code: NSE-GUJGASLTD 
 
Sub: Regulation 34 (1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 - Notice of the 11th Annual General Meeting (AGM) alongwith 
Annual Report of Gujarat Gas Limited for the Financial Year 2022–23. 
 
Respected Sir/ Madam, 
 
This is further to our Letter dated 22nd August, 2023, wherein, the Company had informed 
that the 11th Annual General Meeting is scheduled to be held on Friday, 29th September, 
2023 at 3:00 P.M. through Video Conferencing (“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means 
(“OAVM), in accordance with the relevant circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs and the Securities and Exchange Board of India.  
 
 
In terms of the requirement of Regulation 34(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, we are submitting herewith the Annual Report 
of the Company including the Notice of AGM for the Financial Year 2022–23. The 
Company has sent the same today i.e. on 2nd September, 2023, through electronic mode to 
the Members who have registered their E-Mail IDs with the Company’s R&TA/Depository 
Participant. 
 
The Notice of AGM along with the Annual Report for the Financial Year 2022-23 is also 
available on the website of the Company viz. www.gujaratgas.com. Further, the Notice of 
AGM is also available on the website of Central Depository Services (India) Limited at 
www.evotingindia.com. 
 
You are requested to kindly take the above information on record. 
 
Thanking You. 
For Gujarat Gas Limited 
 
 
 
Sandeep Dave 
Company Secretary 
Sandeep 
Dave
Digitally signed by Sandeep Dave 
DN: c=IN, o=Personal, title=5397, 
pseudonym=133062411707172077f1485Eh1r2od65, 
2.5.4.20=6ad72d79236b5dc8cafbfb5c50c7369ea609d33
877775d6da398fd27f41c3ebf, postalCode=382024, 
st=Gujarat, 
serialNumber=2e730495face7cec9ce0617656a1b6b9708
e36bef5f715769debaeebc944de5a, cn=Sandeep Dave 
Date: 2023.09.02 22:04:36 +05'30'
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
CIN-L40200GJ2012SGC069118
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Shri Raj Kumar, IAS, Chairman (w.e.f. 21/02/2023) Director 
(w.e.f. 21/07/2022)
Shri J.P. Gupta, IAS (w.e.f. 09/08/2023)
Smt. Mamta Verma, IAS (w.e.f. 01/05/2023)
Shri Balwant Singh, IAS, (Retd.) (w.e.f. 20/04/2022)
Prof. Yogesh Singh (w.e.f. 15/08/2021)
Shri Bhadresh Mehta (w.e.f. 15/08/2021)
Dr. Rekha Jain (w.e.f. 20/04/2022)
Shri Milind Torawane, IAS, Managing Director (w.e.f. 13/04/2023)
Director (10/08/2017 up to 29/12/2022) 
Shri K.D. Chatterjee (upto 19/04/2022)
Shri Jal Patel (upto 19/04/2022)
Dr. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, IAS (Retd.) (upto 07/06/2022)
Shri Pankaj Kumar, IAS (Retd.) (upto 31/01/2023)
Shri Sanjeev Kumar, IAS, Managing Director (upto 31/03/2023) 
Smt. Mona Khandhar, IAS (upto 08/08/2023)
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Mr. Nitesh Bhandari
COMPANY SECRETARY
Mr. Sandeep Dave 
INTERNAL AUDITORS
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
SECRETARIAL AUDITORS
Dhawal Chavda & Associates
REGISTRAR & SHARE TRANSFER AGENT
M/s KFin Technologies Limited, Hyderabad
BANKERS & FINANCIAL INSTITUTION 
Axis Bank
Bank of Baroda
Federal Bank
HDFC Bank
ICICI Bank
IDBI Bank
IndusInd Bank
Kotak Mahindra Bank
Punjab National Bank
RBL Bank
State Bank of India
Union Bank of India
Yes Bank
STATUTORY AUDITORS 
Manubhai & Shah LLP, Chartered Accountants, G-4, Capstone, 
Opp. Chirag Motors, Sheth Mangaldas Road, Ellisbridge, 
Ahmedabad – 380006, Gujarat, India.
COST AUDITORS
Ashish Bhavsar & Associates, Cost Accountants, 
916, Shiromani Complex, Opp. Ocean Park, Nehrunagar, 
Satellite Road, Ahmedabad - 380015, Gujarat, India. 
REGISTERED OFFICE
Gujarat Gas CNG Station, Sector 5/C, 
Gandhinagar – 382 006, Gujarat, India. 
CORPORATE OFFICE
2, Shanti Sadan Society, Near Parimal Garden, Ellisbridge, 
Ahmedabad – 380 006, Gujarat, India

CONTENTS
PAGE
(1)  
Notice  
1
(2)  
Board’s Report  
17
(3)  
Corporate Governance Compliance Certificate   
59
(4)  
Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors   
60
(5)  
Certificate of Compliance with Code of Conduct   
61
(6)  
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (BRSR) 
62
 
Standalone
(7)  
Report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India 
106  
(8)  
Independent Auditors’ Report   
107
(9)  
Balance Sheet  
118
(10)  Statement of Profit and Loss   
119
(11)  Statement of Cash Flows 
120

CONTENTS
PAGE
(12)  Statement of Changes in Equity  
122
(13)  Notes to Financial Statements 
123
 
Consolidated
(14)  Report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India  
193
(15)  Independent Auditors’ Report  
194
(16)  Balance Sheet  
204
(17)  Statement of Profit and Loss  
205
(18)  Statement of Cash Flows 
206
(19)  Statement of Changes in Equity  
208
(20)  Notes to Financial Statements 
209
(21) Statement Pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the  
281
 
Companies Act, 2013 (AOC-1)
th
11  ANNUAL REPORT 2022 - 23
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
NOTICE is hereby given that the 11th (Eleventh) Annual General Meeting of the Members of Gujarat Gas Limited will be held on 
Friday, 29th September, 2023 at 3:00 p.m., through Video Conference (“VC’) / Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”), to transact 
the following business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. 
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial Statements (Standalone & Consolidated) of the Company for the Financial 
Year ended 31st March, 2023 and the Reports of the Board of Directors together with the Reports of Statutory Auditors and 
Comments of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India.
2. 
To declare Dividend on equity shares for the Financial Year 2022-23.
3. 
To re-appoint Shri. Raj Kumar, IAS, (DIN: 00294527), who retires by rotation and being eligible offers himself for re-appointment.
4. 
To authorise the Board of Directors of the Company to fix  remuneration of Statutory Auditors of the Company for Financial Year 
2023 -24, in terms of the provisions of Section 142 of Companies Act, 2013.
SPECIAL BUSINESS
5. 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
“RESOLVED THAT Shri J.P. Gupta, IAS, (DIN: 01952821) who was appointed as an Additional Director pursuant to provisions 
of Sections 149,152, 161 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Appointment and Qualifications of Directors) Rules, 
2014 [including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force] and Articles of Association of 
the Company and who holds office up to the date of this Annual General Meeting and in respect of whom, the Company has 
received a notice in writing under Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013, from a Member proposing his candidature for the 
office of the Director be and is hereby appointed as a Director of the Company till further orders by Government of Gujarat in this 
regard, who shall be liable to retire by rotation.” 
6. 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
“RESOLVED THAT Smt. Mamta Verma, IAS, (DIN: 01854315) who was appointed as an Additional Director pursuant to 
provisions of Sections 149,152, 161 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Appointment and Qualifications of 
Directors) Rules, 2014 [including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force] and Articles 
of Association of the Company and who holds office up to the date of this Annual General Meeting and in respect of whom, the 
Company has received a notice in writing under Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013, from a Member proposing her 
candidature for the office of the Director be and is hereby appointed as a Director of the Company till further orders by 
Government of Gujarat in this regard, who shall be liable to retire by rotation.”
7. 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
“RESOLVED THAT Shri Milind Torawane, IAS, (DIN: 03632394) who was appointed as an Additional Director and Managing 
Director w.e.f. 13th April, 2023 pursuant to provisions of Sections 149,152, 161 and other applicable provisions, if any of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Appointment and Qualifications of Directors) Rules, 2014 [including any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force] and the relevant Articles of Association of the 
Company and who holds office as an Additional Director up to the date of this Annual General Meeting and in respect of whom, 
the Company has received a notice in writing under Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013, from a Member proposing his 
candidature, be and is hereby appointed as Managing Director of the Company, till further orders by Government of Gujarat in 
this regard, who shall not be liable to retire by rotation so long as he holds the position of Managing Director .”
8. 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
"RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of the Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013, if any and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment thereof, for the time being in force), the remuneration of M/s. Kailash Sankhlecha & Associates, Cost Accountants, 
(firm registration No. 100221) the Cost Auditors of the Company, (whose appointment and remuneration has been 
recommended by the Audit Committee and approved by the Board of Directors), for conducting the audit of the cost records 
maintained by the Company for the Financial Year 2023-24, i.e. Rs. 118000/- (Rupees One Lakh Eighteen Thousands only) + 
GST and out of pocket expenses, is hereby ratified.
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the Company be and is hereby authorised to do all acts and to take such 
steps as may be necessary, proper and expedient to give effect to this resolution."
                     By Order of the Board 
For Gujarat Gas Limited
Date: 29th August, 2023  
 
 
Sandeep Dave
Place: Ahmedabad  
 
 
 
Company Secretary
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Registered Office: Gujarat Gas CNG Station, Sector 5/C, Gandhinagar – 382006, Gujarat
Tel: +91-79-26462980 Fax + 91-79-26466249 
 website: www.gujaratgas.com, 
E-mail Id: Investors@GUJARATGAS.com
CIN: L40200GJ2012SGC069118
NOTICE OF 11TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
1
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Registered Office : Gujarat Gas CNG Station, Sector 5/C, Gandhinagar – 382006, Gujarat 
Tel: +91-79-26462980 Fax + 91-79 26466249 website: www.gujaratgas.com E-mail: Investors@GUJARATGAS.com
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes:
1. 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has vide its circular dated 5th May, 2020 read with Circulars dated 8th April, 2020, 
13th April, 2020, Circular dated 13th January, 2021, Circular dated 14th December, 2021, Circular dated 5th May, 2022 and 
Circular dated 28th December, 2022  (collectively referred as “MCA Circulars”) and Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(“SEBI”) vide its circular dated 12th May, 2020, circular dated 15th January, 2021, circular dated 13th May, 2022 and Circular 
dated 5th January, 2023 (collectively referred to as “SEBI Circulars”) permitted convening of the Annual General Meeting 
through Video Conferencing (VC) or Other Audio Visual Means (OAVM), without the physical presence of the members at the 
common venue. In accordance with the MCA Circulars, provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Annual General Meeting of the Company is being held through VC/OAVM. 
The deemed venue for the AGM shall be Registered Office of the Company. The Central Depository Services (India) Limited will 
be providing facility for voting through remote e-voting, for participation in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and e-voting 
during the AGM. The procedure for participating in the Meeting through VC/OAVM is explained in later part of Notes. 
2. 
Generally, a member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on poll instead of 
himself and the proxy need not be a member of the Company. Since this AGM shall be conducted through VC/OAVM, the facility 
for appointment of proxy by the members will not be available for the AGM and hence the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip 
including the Route Map are not annexed hereto.
3. 
Corporate Members are requested to send a scanned copy of its Board Resolution authorizing its representative to attend the 
AGM through VC/OAVM and to vote at the AGM pursuant to Section 113 of the Companies Act, 2013 to the scrutiniser at  
manojhurkat@hotmail.com. 
4. 
An Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 relating to the special business to be 
transacted at the AGM and the relevant details of the Directors seeking appointment/re-appointment at the AGM as required 
under Regulation 36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 is annexed thereto. The 
Board of Directors have considered and decided to include the Item No. 5 to 8 given above as Special Business in the forthcoming 
AGM, as they are unavoidable in nature.
5. 
The Company has fixed Monday, 11th September, 2023 as “Record Date” for determining entitlement of Final Dividend of Rs. 
6.65/- (i.e. 332.5%) per Share for the Financial Year ended on 31st March, 2023.
 
ELECTRONIC DISPATCH OF ANNUAL REPORT AND PROCESS FOR REGISTRATION OF EMAIL ID FOR OBTAINING COPY 
OF ANNUAL REPORT/LOGIN CREDENTIALS FOR E-VOTING
6. 
In Compliance with the aforesaid MCA Circulars and SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated 12th May, 
2020, SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated 15th January, 2021, SEBI Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated 13th May, 2022 and SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4 
dated 5th January, 2023, the financial statements (including the Report of Board of Directors, Auditor’s Report and other 
documents required to be annexed therewith) and Notice of AGM are being sent in electronic mode to Members whose E-mail 
addresses are registered with the Company or the Depository Participant(s). 
7. 
Members who have not updated their E-mail addresses and mobile number with the Company/ R&TA KFin Technologies 
Limited/respective Depository Participants are requested to follow the below procedure to get their E-mail addresses updated 
to obtain the copy of Annual Report and Login Credentials for attending AGM/casting votes through E-voting at 
www.evotingindia.com:
• 
Shareholders holding Shares in physical mode: The Shareholders are requested to update their email addresses and mobile 
number by sending following documents by E-mail at einward.ris@kfintech.com or by writing to R&TA at Selenium Tower B, 
Plot Nos. 31 & 32, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Mandal, Hyderabad – 500032:
 
a) 
A signed request letter mentioning your name, folio number, complete address and mobile number;
 
b) 
Form ISR-1
 
c) 
Self attested scanned copy of the PAN Card; and
 
d) 
Self attested scanned copy of any document (such as AADHAR Card, Driving Licence, Passport) in support of the address of 
the Member as registered with the Company.
• 
 Shareholders holding Shares in Demat mode: The Shareholders holding Shares in Demat mode are requested to update their 
E-mail addresses and mobile number with their Depository Participants.
 
If you have any queries or issues regarding attending AGM & e-Voting from the CDSL e-Voting System, you can write an email to 
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 1800 22 55 33. All grievances connected with the facility for 
voting by electronic means may be addressed to Mr. Rakesh Dalvi, Sr. Manager, (CDSL, ) Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited, A Wing, 25th Floor, Marathon Futurex, Mafatlal Mill Compounds, N M Joshi Marg, Lower Parel (East), Mumbai - 400013 
or send an email to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or call  toll free no. 1800 22 55 33.
2
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
8. 
Notice of the AGM along with the Annual Report 2022–23 is also available on the website of the Company i.e.  
www.gujaratgas.com, websites of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at 
https://www.bseindia.com/ and https://www.nseindia.com/ respectively. Further, the AGM Notice will also be available on 
the website of CDSL www.evotingindia.com.
 
PROCEDURE FOR JOINING THE AGM THROUGH VC / OAVM
9. 
The Company will provide facility of VC/OAVM to its member for participating at the AGM. 
 
The Members can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM mode 15 minutes before and after the scheduled time of the commencement 
of the Meeting by following the procedure mentioned in the Notice. The facility of participation at the AGM through VC/OAVM 
will be made available to atleast 1000 members on first come first served basis. This will not include large Shareholders 
(Shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding), Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, the 
Chairpersons of the Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee, 
Auditors etc. who are allowed to attend the AGM without restriction on account of first come first served basis.
10. Members attending the AGM through VC/ OAVM shall be counted for purpose of reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
 
PROCEDURE FOR REMOTE E-VOTING AND E-VOTING DURING AGM
11. In compliance with provisions of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended and Regulation 44 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, the Company is pleased to provide facility to the Members to exercise their right to vote by electronic means 
in respect of the Resolution(s) contained in this Notice. The Company has engaged the services of Central Depository Services 
(India) Limited (CDSL) as the Authorised Agency to provide remote e-voting facility (i.e. the facility of casting votes by a 
Member by using an electronic voting system from a place other than the venue of a General Meeting) as well as e-voting facility 
during the AGM.
12. The cut off date for the purpose of e-voting (including remote e-voting) is Friday, 22nd September, 2023. A person whose 
name is recorded in the Register of Members or in the Register of Beneficial Owners maintained by the Depositories at the close 
of business hours on Friday, 22nd September, 2023 shall be entitled to vote on the resolutions proposed to be passed at the 
AGM by electronic means. The Voting rights of the members shall be in proportion of the paid-up value of their shares in the 
equity capital of the Company as on the cut off date for the purpose of the e-voting.
13. The Members may cast their votes on electronic voting system from any place (remote e-voting). The remote e-voting will be 
available during the following period after which the portal shall forthwith be blocked and shall not be available:
14. The Board of Directors of the Company have appointed M/s Manoj Hurkat & Associates, Practising Company Secretary, as the 
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the entire e-voting process (i.e. remote e-voting and e-voting facility during AGM) in a fair and 
transparent manner. 
15. The Scrutinizer shall submit, on or before 30th September, 2023 (6:30 P.M.), a consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report (for votes 
casted during the AGM and votes casted through remote e-voting) of the total votes cast in favour or against, if any, forthwith to 
the Chairman of the Company or a person authorised by him, who shall declare the result forthwith.
16. The Results declared alongwith the Scrutinizer’s Report shall be placed on the Company’s website www.gujaratgas.com and 
on the website of Central Depository Services (India) Limited immediately after the result is declared and shall be 
simultaneously communicated to the  BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) where the Equity 
Shares of the Company are Listed.
17. Information and instructions relating to e-voting are given as under: 
 
Remote E-voting:
(I) 
Pursuant to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated 9th December, 2020, under Regulation 44 of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, listed entities are 
required to provide remote e-voting facility to its shareholders, in respect of all shareholders’ resolutions. Currently, there are 
multiple e-voting service providers (ESPs) providing e-voting facility to listed entities in India. This necessitates registration on 
various ESPs and maintenance of multiple user IDs and passwords by the shareholders. In order to increase the efficiency of the 
voting process, pursuant to a public consultation, it has been decided to enable e-voting to all the demat account holders, by 
way of a single login credential, through their demat accounts/ websites of Depositories/ Depository Participants. 
Demat account holders would be able to cast their vote without having to register again with the ESPs, thereby, not only 
facilitating seamless authentication but also enhancing ease and convenience of participating in e-voting process.
3
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Commencement of remote e-voting 
09:00 A.M. (IST) on Tuesday, 26th September, 2023
End of remote e-voting 
05:00 P.M. (IST) on Thursday, 28th September, 2023
(ii) In terms of SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated 9th December, 2020 on e-Voting facility 
provided by Listed Companies, Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat 
account maintained with Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and 
email Id in their demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility.
 
Pursuant to aforesaid SEBI Circular, Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meetings for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in Demat mode is given below:
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
4
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in Demat 
mode with CDSL
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL
1) 
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing user id and 
password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further 
authentication. The users to login to Easi / Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab. 
2) 
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible 
companies where the evoting is in progress as per the information provided by company. On 
clicking the evoting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service 
provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting. Additionally, there are also links provided to access the system of all 
e-Voting Service Providers i.e. CDSL/NSDL/KFINTECH/ LINKINTIME, so that the user can visit 
the e-Voting service providers’ website directly. 
3) 
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System MyeasiTab and then click on registration 
option. 
4) 
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account Number 
and PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will 
authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the Demat 
Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting option where the 
evoting is in progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-Voting Service 
Providers.
1) 
If you are already registered for NSDL IDeAS facility, please visit the e-Services website of NSDL. 
Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a 
Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the 
“Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section. A new screen will 
open. You will have to enter your User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will 
be able to see e-Voting services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you 
will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider name and 
you will be re-directed to e-Voting service provider website for casting your vote during the 
remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
2) 
If the user is not  registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS “Portal or click at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp 
3) 
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home 
page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. 
your sixteen digit demat account number held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification 
Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL 
Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service 
provider name and you will be redirected to e-Voting service provider website for casting your 
vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting
Login Method
Type of shareholders 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Individual Shareholders 
(holding securities in demat 
mode) login through their 
Depository Participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository 
Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility.  After Successful login, you will be able to 
see e-Voting option. Once you click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL 
Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on 
company name or e-Voting service provider name and you will be redirected to e-Voting service 
provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
5
Individual Shareholders holding securities 
in Demat mode with CDSL
Individual Shareholders holding securities 
in Demat mode with NSDL
PAN
Dividend Bank Details OR 
Date of Birth (DOB) 
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by 
sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free 
no. 1800 22 55 33. 
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by 
sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at toll free no.: 1800 1020 990 and 
1800 22 44 30  
For Shareholders holding shares in Demat Form other than individual Shareholders and 
Physical Form
Enter your 10 digit alpha-numeric *PAN issued by Income Tax Department (Applicable for both 
demat shareholders as well as physical shareholders)
* 
Shareholders who have not updated their PAN with the Company/Depository Participant are
 
requested to use the sequence number provided in the E-mail sent to the Shareholders.
Enter the Dividend Bank Details or Date of Birth (in dd/mm/yyyy format) as recorded in your 
demat account or in the company records in order to login.
• 
If both the details are not recorded with the depository or company, please enter the
 
member id / folio number in the Dividend Bank details field as mentioned in instruction (iii).
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget Password option 
available at above mentioned website.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through Depository i.e. 
CDSL and NSDL
Helpdesk details
Login type
(iii) 
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than individual shareholders holding in 
Demat form & physical shareholders.
 
1) 
The shareholders should log on to the e-voting website www.evotingindia.com
 
2) 
Click on “Shareholders” module.
 
3) 
Now enter your User ID 
 
 
a. 
For CDSL: 16 digits beneficiary ID, 
 
 
b. 
For NSDL: 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digits Client ID, 
 
 
c. 
Shareholders holding shares in Physical Form should enter Folio Number registered with the Company.
 
4) 
Next enter the Image Verification as displayed and Click on Login.
 
5) 
If you are holding shares in demat form and had logged on to www.evotingindia.com and voted on an earlier e-voting of 
any company, then your existing password is to be used. 
 
6) 
If you are a first-time user follow the steps given below:
(iv) After entering these details appropriately, click on “SUBMIT” tab.
(v) 
Shareholders holding shares in physical form will then directly reach the Company selection screen. However, shareholders 
holding shares in demat form will now reach ‘Password Creation’ menu wherein they are required to mandatorily enter their 
login password in the new password field. Kindly note that this password is to be also used by the demat holders for voting for 
resolutions of any other company on which they are eligible to vote, provided that company opts for e-voting through CDSL 
platform. It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential.
(vi) For shareholders holding shares in physical form, the details can be used only for e-voting on the resolutions contained in this 
Notice.
(vii) Click on the EVSN for the relevant <Company Name> on which you choose to vote.
(viii) On the voting page, you will see “RESOLUTION DESCRIPTION” and against the same the option “YES/NO” for voting. Select the 
option YES or NO as desired. The option YES implies that you assent to the Resolution and option NO implies that you dissent to 
the Resolution.
(ix) 
Click on the “RESOLUTIONS FILE LINK” if you wish to view the entire Resolution details.
(x) 
After selecting the resolution, you have decided to vote on, click on “SUBMIT”. A confirmation box will be displayed. If you wish 
to confirm your vote, click on “OK”, else to change your vote, click on “CANCEL” and accordingly modify your vote.
(xi) 
Once you “CONFIRM” your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
(xii) You can also take a print of the votes cast by clicking on “Click here to print” option on the Voting page.
(xiii) If a demat account holder has forgotten the login password then Enter the User ID and the image verification code and click on 
Forgot Password & enter the details as prompted by the system.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
6
(xiv) Facility for Non – Individual Shareholders and Custodians –Remote Voting
• 
Non-Individual shareholders (i.e. other than Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) and Custodians are required to log on to 
www.evotingindia.com and register themselves in the “Corporates” module.
• 
A scanned copy of the Registration Form bearing the stamp and sign of the entity should be emailed to 
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com.
• 
After receiving the login details a Compliance User should be created using the admin login and password. The Compliance User 
would be able to link the account(s) for which they wish to vote on.
• 
The list of accounts linked in the login should be mailed to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com and on approval of the accounts 
they would be able to cast their vote. 
• 
A scanned copy of the Board Resolution and Power of Attorney (POA) which they have issued in favour of the Custodian, if any, 
should be uploaded in PDF format in the system for the scrutinizer to verify the same.
• 
Alternatively Non Individual shareholders are required to send the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority letter etc. together with 
attested specimen signature of the duly authorized signatory who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer and to the 
Company at the email address viz; manojhurkat@hotmail.com, if they have voted from individual tab & not uploaded same in 
the CDSL e-voting system for the scrutinizer to verify the same.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR SHAREHOLDERS ATTENDING THE AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM & E-VOTING DURING MEETING ARE 
AS UNDER:
1. 
The procedure for attending meeting & e-Voting on the day of the AGM is same as the instructions mentioned above for 
Remote e-voting.
2. 
The link for VC/OAVM to attend meeting will be available where the EVSN of Company will be displayed after successful login as 
per the instructions mentioned above for Remote e-voting.
3. 
Shareholders who have voted through Remote e-Voting will be eligible to attend the meeting. However, they will not be eligible 
to vote at the AGM.
4. 
Shareholders are encouraged to join the Meeting through Laptops / IPads for better experience.
5. 
Further shareholders will be required to allow Camera and use Internet with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during the 
meeting.
6. 
Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via Mobile Hotspot may 
experience Audio/Video loss due to Fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or 
LAN Connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
7. 
Shareholders who would like to express their views/ask questions during the meeting may register themselves as a speaker by 
sending their request in advance atleast 10 days prior to meeting mentioning their name, demat account number/folio 
number, email id, mobile number at Investors@GUJARATGAS.com. The shareholders who do not wish to speak during the 
AGM but have queries may send their queries in advance atleast 10 days prior to meeting mentioning their name, demat 
account number/folio number, email id, mobile number at Investors@GUJARATGAS.com. These queries will be replied to by 
the company suitably. It is to be noted that Company reserves the rights to restrict the number of questions and number of 
speakers, as appropriate for smooth conduct of AGM. 
8. 
Those shareholders who have registered themselves as a speaker will only be allowed to express their views/ask questions 
during the meeting.
9. 
Further, the facility of e-voting will also be available at the AGM and the members who have not cast their vote by remote 
e-voting on all or any of the resolutions set out in the Notice can cast their vote at the Meeting. The Members who have cast 
their vote by remote e-voting prior to the meeting may also attend the meeting but shall not be entitled to cast their vote again 
at the Annual General Meeting. If any Votes are cast by the shareholders through the e-voting available during the AGM and if 
the same shareholders have not participated in the meeting through VC/OAVM facility, then the votes cast by such 
shareholders shall be considered invalid as the facility of e-voting during the meeting is available only to the shareholders 
attending the meeting.
PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION OF DOCUMENTS
18. 
All the documents referred to in the accompanying Notice and Explanatory Statements, shall be available for inspection 
through electronic mode on the basis of prior request. Members seeking to inspect such documents can send the e-mail to 
Investors@GUJARATGAS.com.
19. 
During the AGM, the Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their Shareholding maintained under Section 170 
of the Act, the Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which the Directors are interested under Section 189 of the Act shall 
be available for inspection electronically by the Members during the E-AGM upon login CDSL e-voting system at 
https://www.evotingindia.com.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
7
DIVIDEND RELATED INFORMATION:
20. Subject to approval of the Members at the AGM, the Dividend will be paid by the Company on or before Saturday, 
28th October, 2023 to the Members whose name appears on the Company’s Register of Members as on the Record Date i.e. 
Monday, 11th September, 2023 as Beneficial owners as at the close of business hours on Monday, 11th September, 
2023, as per the list to be furnished by the Depositories in respect of the shares held in electronic form and for physical 
shareholders after giving effect to all valid share transfer in physical form received as at the close of business hours on 
Monday, 11th September, 2023.
21. 
It is to be noted that payment of Dividend shall be made through electronic mode to the shareholders who have updated their 
bank details. Dividend Warrants/Demand drafts will be dispatched to the registered address of the Shareholders who have not 
updated their bank details.
22. Members holding shares in Demat Form are hereby informed that bank particulars registered with their respective Depository 
Participants, with whom they maintain their Demat accounts, will be used by the Company for the payment of Dividend. The 
Company or its Registrar cannot act on any request received directly from the Members holding shares in Demat Form for any 
change of bank particulars. Such changes are to be intimated only to the Depository Participant(s) of the Members. Members 
holding shares in Demat form are requested to intimate any change in their address and / or bank mandate immediately to their 
Depository Participants. 
23. Members holding shares in Physical Form are requested to register / update Bank Mandates by submitting following details / 
documents by E-mail at einward.ris@kfintech.com or by writing to our R&TA, KFin Technologies Limited (KFintech):
 
a) Name and Branch of Bank in which Dividend is to be received and Bank Account Type;
 
b) Bank Account Number allotted by your Bank after implementation of Core Banking Solutions;
 
c) 11 digit IFSC Code; and
 
d) Self attested scanned copy of cancelled cheque bearing the name of the Member or first holder, in case Shares are held jointly.
 
e) Form ISR-2, Form ISR-1
24. INFORMATION ON TDS ON DIVIDEND INCOME:
 
Members may note that the Income Tax Act, 1961 mandates that dividends paid or distributed by a Company shall be taxable in 
the hands of the Shareholders. The Company shall therefore be required to deduct Tax at Source (TDS) at the time of payment 
of dividend as per the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.  
 
APPLICABILITY OF TDS/WITHHOLDING TAX ON DIVIDEND WILL BE AS UNDER:
 
FOR RESIDENT SHAREHOLDERS:
Resident Individual 
Shareholder
Resident Individual 
submitting form 15G/15H
Insurance Companies
Mutual Funds 
10%
NIL
NIL
NIL
No TDS shall be deducted in the case where the total Dividend Income for FY 2023-24 
to the Individual Shareholder from the respective entity paying the dividend does not 
exceed ` 5,000/-
• 
Duly filled Form 15G (Individual less than 60 years)
• 
Duly filled Form 15H (Individual with age 60 years or more)
• 
Blank Form 15G and 15H can be downloaded from GGL's website at 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/investors/tds-on-dividend/
• 
Self-Attested copy of PAN & IRDAI Registration Certificate
• 
Duly signed self-declaration
• 
Declaration format can be downloaded from GGL's website at 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/investors/tds-on-dividend/
• 
Self-Attested copy of PAN & Registration Certificate issued by SEBI
• 
Duly signed self-declaration that its income is exempt under Section 10(23D) of the 
Act and there is no requirement to deduct TDS in view of section 196(iv) of the 
Income Tax Act
• 
Declaration format can be downloaded from GGL's website at 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/investors/tds-on-dividend/
Exemption applicability/ Documentation requirement
Category of shareholder
Tax
Deduction
Rate
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Alternative Investment Fund 
Category- I & II
NIL
• 
Self-Attested copy of PAN & Registration Certificate issued by SEBI
• 
Self-Declaration that its income is exempt under section 10(23FBA) read with 
Section 115UB read with Section 197A(1F) of the Act.
New Pension System (NPS) 
Trust
NIL
• 
Attested copies of registration documents and PAN
• 
Self-declaration that it qualifies as NPS trust and income is eligible for exemption 
under Section 10(44) of the Act and being regulated by the provisions of the Indian 
Trusts Act, 1882 and there is no requirement to deduct TDS.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
8
Non-Resident 
Shareholder including 
Foreign Institutional 
Investors / Foreign 
Portfolio Investors 
('FII/FPI']
Submitting Order under 
section 197 or 195 of 
the Act.
Any non-resident 
shareholder exempt from 
withholding tax 
deduction as per Income 
Tax Act or any other law 
granting overriding 
exemption/ immunity
If Non-Resident Shareholder wishes to avail the benefits of Tax Treaty, they will have to 
submit the following: 
• 
Self-attested copy of Permanent Account Number (PAN Card), if any, allotted by the 
Indian income tax authorities;
• 
Self-attested copy of Tax Residency Certificate (TRC) applicable for FY 2023-24 
obtained from the tax authorities of the Country of which the Shareholder is resident.
• 
Copy of Form 10F electronically filed with income tax department: Shareholders who 
have PAN and propose to claim treaty benefit need to mandatorily file the Form 10F 
online on the Income Tax web portal.
CBDT have exempted those non-residents who are not having PAN and are not required 
to have PAN as per the law from mandatory e-filing of Form 10F online until September 
30, 2023 and such non-residents may make this statutory compliance of filing Form 10F 
in manual form as was being done prior to issuance of the Notification No. 3/2022 till 
September 30, 2023 only.
• 
Self-Declaration by the Non-Resident Shareholder of having no Permanent 
Establishment (No PE) / Fixed Base in India, beneficial ownership & compliance with 
provisions of Multilateral Instrument (MLI).
• 
For FII & FPI, in addition to the above documents, certificate of registration with SEBI 
is also required to be submitted
The format for "Form 10F" and "Self Declaration by Non-Residents" can be downloaded 
from GGL's website at https://www.gujaratgas.com/investors/tds-on-dividend/
In case of shareholder being tax resident of Singapore, please furnish the letter issued by 
the competent authority or any other evidence demonstrating the non-applicability of 
Article 24 - Limitation of Relief under India-Singapore DTAA.
The Company is not obligated to apply the beneficial DTAA rates at the time of Tax 
deduction / withholding on Dividend amounts. Application of beneficial DTAA Rate shall 
depend upon the completeness and satisfactory review by the Company, of the 
documents submitted by Non-Resident Shareholder.
• 
Valid Lower / NIL Withholding Tax Certificate obtained from Income Tax Authorities 
for the F.Y. 2023-24
• 
Self-attested copy of PAN
Gujarat Gas Limited's tax deduction account number (TAN) which is required for applying 
lower/ nil TDS certificate is AHMG05349B.
Necessary documentary evidence substantiating exemption from Withholding Tax 
deduction.
The granting of exemption benefit shall depend upon the completeness and satisfactory 
review by the Company, of the documents submitted.
Exemption applicability/ Documentation requirement
Category of 
shareholder
Tax
Deduction
Rate
FOR NON-RESIDENT SHAREHOLDERS 
20% (plus 
applicable 
surcharge 
and cess) or 
Tax treaty 
rate (if the 
same is 
availed on 
the basis of 
submission 
of requisite 
documents & 
disclosures)
Rate 
provided in 
Order
NIL
or
applicable 
rate as per 
document
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Any other entity exempt 
from withholding tax under 
the provisions of Income Tax 
Act, 1961 (including those 
mentioned in Circular No. 
18/2017 issued by Central 
Board of Direct Taxes 
('CBDT'))
Order u/s 197 of the Act
NIL
Rate 
provided 
in the 
order
• 
Self-attested copy of documentary evidence supporting the exemption along with 
self-attested copy of PAN card.
• 
A Declaration that they are covered under the circular No.18/2017 issued by CBDT 
& TDS is not required to be deducted on dividend income accrued to them
• 
Valid Lower / NIL Withholding Tax Certificate obtained from Income Tax Authorities 
for the F.Y. 2023-24
• 
Self-attested copy of PAN
• 
Gujarat Gas Limited's tax deduction account number (TAN) which is required for 
applying lower/ nil TDS certificate is AHMG05349B.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
9
 
The Shareholders are requested to upload the said Documents/Forms on the upload centre of Company's ['R&TA'] 
https://ris.kfintech.com/form15/ on or before 13th September, 2023 in order to enable the Company to determine and 
deduct appropriate TDS / Withholding Tax Rate. The forms shall be submitted through the above specified mode only, no 
other mode shall be accepted. No communication on the Tax determination / deduction shall be entertained post the 
aforementioned timeline.
 
The Shareholders holding shares under multiple accounts under different status / category and having single PAN, may note 
that, higher of the tax as applicable to the status in which shares held under a PAN will be considered on their entire holding in 
different accounts. 
 
Application of TDS rate is subject to necessary due diligence including verification by the Company of the details of the 
Member(s) available as per the Register of Members on the Record date, documents / other information available in the records 
of the Company / its Registrar & Transfer Agents (RTA) and other reliable source(s). The Company may deduct TDS on Dividend 
at the maximum applicable rate, in case of any incomplete, conflicting or ambiguous information and/or the valid proper 
documents and/or information not provided by the Member(s).
 
In the event of any Income Tax demand (including interest, penalty, etc.) arising from any misrepresentation, inaccuracy or 
omission of information provided / to be provided by the Shareholder(s), such Shareholder(s) will be responsible to indemnify 
the Company and also, provide the Company with all information / documents and co-operation in any appellate proceedings.
 
It may be further noted that in case the tax on said dividend is deducted at a higher rate in absence of receipt of the 
aforementioned details / documents from residential shareholders, there would still be an option available to the shareholder to 
claim the appropriate refund at the time of filing the return of income as per eligibility. No claim shall lie against the Company for 
such taxes deducted.
 
The Company vide separate email have sent detailed communication for deduction of Tax at Source on dividend on 8th July, 
2023. The said communication is also available at Company’s website at https://www.gujaratgas.com/investors/tds-on-
dividend/.
IEPF RELATED INFORMATION:
25. The Company had paid dividends to its shareholders and pursuant to the Companies Act, 2013, the amount of such dividends 
pertaining to FY 2014-15, that was unclaimed/ unpaid have been transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
(IEPF) of the Government.  Members who have not encashed their dividend warrants pertaining to FY 2015-16 to FY 2021-22, 
may approach the Company or its Registrar & Share Transfer Agent for obtaining payment thereof mentioning the relevant folio 
number or DPID/ Client ID, for issuance of duplicate / revalidated dividend warrant(s).
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, the Company has transferred 2,29,709 Equity Shares 
corresponding to the unclaimed Dividend declared by the Company for the FY 2014 - 2015 to the demat account held by IEPF 
Authority after following the due procedure prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 and the IEPF Rules.
 
The Company has been sending reminders to those members having unpaid/unclaimed dividends before transfer of such 
dividend(s) to IEPF. The Company has uploaded full details (Name, Folio no/DP id/Client id) of such shareholders on its website 
www.gujaratgas.com. Members who have not encashed their dividend pertaining to the FY 2015-16 to FY 2021-22 are 
advised to write to the Company or KFin Technologies Limited (KFin), the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent, at Selenium 
Tower B, Plot 31- 32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032, Toll free no.: 1800 309 4001  or 
e-mail: einward.ris@kfintech.com immediately for obtaining payment thereof mentioning the relevant Folio number or DP ID 
and Client ID along with bank details.
 
The aforesaid Rules provides for the manner of transfer of the unpaid and unclaimed dividends to IEPF and the manner of 
transfer of shares in case any dividend has not been encashed by the shareholders on such shares during the last seven years to 
the designated demat account of the IEPF Authority. As per the requirement, the Company had sent information to all the 
shareholders who had not claimed/encashed dividends in the last seven years intimating, amongst other things, the 
requirements of the aforesaid rules with regard to transfer of shares and that in the event those shareholders do not claim any 
unclaimed/unpaid dividends for the past seven years, the Company will be required to transfer the respective shares to the IEPF 
demat Account by the due date prescribed as per the aforesaid rules and as amended from time to time. The Company had also 
simultaneously published notice in the leading newspaper in English and regional language dated 5th July, 2023 having wide 
circulation as per statutory requirement and uploaded on the “Investors Section” of the Website of the Company viz. 
www.gujaratgas.com giving details of such shareholders and shares due to be transferred. In case valid claim is not received, 
the respective shares will be credited to the demat account of the IEPF Authority. 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
10
26. Members may note that they can claim back the Shares as well as unclaimed Dividends transferred to the IEPF Authority. 
Concerned Members/Investors are advised to visit the weblink http://www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/refund.html or contact R&TA 
for lodging claim for refund of Shares and/or Dividend from the IEPF Authority.
OTHER INFORMATION:
27. 
As per Regulation 40 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended, 
Securities of listed companies can be transferred only in Dematerialized Form with effect from 1st April, 2019, 
except in case of request received for transmission or transposition of securities. In view of this and to eliminate all 
risks associated with physical shares, members holding shares in Physical Form are requested to consider converting 
their holdings to Dematerialized Form.
28. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has mandated the submission of Permanent Account Number (PAN) by 
every participant in securities market. Accordingly, if not submitted, Members holding Shares in electronic mode are, 
therefore, requested to submit the PAN details to their Depository Participants with whom they are maintaining their 
demat accounts. Further, the Members holding Shares in physical form can submit their PAN details to KFin 
Technologies Limited.
29. SEBI with an objective to streamline and strengthen the procedures and processes with regard to handling and maintenance of 
records, transfer of securities etc. issued Guidelines, wherein, it requires companies to take special efforts to collect copy of PAN 
and bank account details of the physical shareholders. Accordingly, physical shareholders who have not submitted, are 
requested to provide/submit the self attested copy of PAN Card, Original Cheque leaf duly cancelled with name of 1st 
holder/sole holder (if name is not printed, self-attested copy of first and last page of recently updated pass book of 1st holder) 
to the R&TA.
30. As stipulated under Regulation 36 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, profile of 
Directors seeking re-appointment / appointment is separately annexed herewith.
31. 
The Resolutions will be deemed to be passed on the Annual General Meeting date subject to receipt of requisite number of votes 
in favour of the Resolutions.
32. Shareholders are requested to refer Communication addressed to shareholders uploaded at 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/resources/downloads/investor-service-procedure-for-physical-shareholders-
29122021.pdf and submit requisite documents in line with statutory requirements.
Date: 29th August, 2023
Place: Ahmedabad
For Gujarat Gas Limited
Sd/-
Sandeep Dave
Company Secretary
Registered Office : Gujarat Gas CNG Station, Sector 5/C, Gandhinagar – 382006, Gujarat 
Tel: +91-79-26462980 Fax + 91-79 26466249 website: www.gujaratgas.com E-mail: Investors@GUJARATGAS.com
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE
 EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 (2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Item No. 5 Appointment of Shri J.P. Gupta, IAS as Director liable to retire by rotation.
Shri J.P. Gupta, IAS, had been appointed as an Additional Director by the Board of Directors effective from 9th August, 2023, in view of 
communication no – FD/0266/08/2023 dated 08/08/2023 received from Finance Department, Government of Gujarat. He and 
his relatives hold nil shares of the Company. 
As per the provisions of section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Articles of Association of the Company, he holds the office 
of Director till the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting. A notice under section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013, has been 
received from a shareholder, signifying the intention to propose his candidature for appointment as the Director of the Company.
Accordingly, the Board recommends the said resolution in relation to his appointment as Director liable to retire by rotation, for your 
approval by passing an ordinary resolution.
His brief profile, nature of his expertise in specific functional areas, disclosure of relationships between directors, inter-se, names of 
companies in which he holds Directorship, Committee Memberships/ Chairmanships, his shareholding etc and other information is 
annexed to this Explanatory Statement.
Copy of aforesaid communication from Finance Department would be available for inspection through electronic mode.
None of the Directors/Promoters or Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) or relatives of Directors/Promoters and KMPs, except Shri J.P. 
Gupta, IAS, is concerned or interested in the Resolution at Item No. 5 of the Notice. Shri J.P. Gupta, IAS and his relatives, if any, are 
interested or concerned in the Resolution concerning his appointment proposed at Item No. 5.
Item No. 6 Appointment of Smt. Mamta Verma, IAS as Director liable to retire by rotation.
Smt. Mamta Verma, IAS, had been appointed as an Additional Director by the Board of Directors effective from 1st May, 2023, in view 
of communication no – EPCD/0308/04/2023 dated 28/04/2023 received from Energy and Petrochemicals Department, 
Government of Gujarat. She and her relatives hold nil shares of the Company. 
As per the provisions of section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Articles of Association of the Company, she holds the office 
of Director till the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting. A notice under section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013, has been 
received from a shareholder, signifying the intention to propose her candidature for appointment as the Director of the Company.
Accordingly, the Board recommends said resolution in relation to her appointment as Director liable to retire by rotation, for your 
approval by passing an ordinary resolution.
Her brief profile, nature of her expertise in specific functional areas, disclosure of relationships between directors, inter-se, names of 
companies in which she holds Directorship, Committee Memberships/ Chairmanships, her shareholding etc and other information is 
annexed to this Explanatory Statement.
Copy of aforesaid communication from Energy and Petrochemicals Department would be available for inspection through electronic 
mode.
None of the Directors/Promoters or Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) or relatives of Directors/Promoters and KMPs, except Smt. 
Mamta Verma, IAS, is concerned or interested in the Resolution at Item No. 6 of the Notice. Smt. Mamta Verma, IAS and her relatives, if 
any, are interested or concerned in the Resolution concerning her appointment proposed at Item No. 6.
Item No. 7 Appointment of Shri. Milind Torawane, IAS as Managing Director.
Shri. Milind Torawane, IAS had been appointed as the Additional Director and Managing Director w.e.f. 13th April, 2023, pursuant to 
communication No. AIS/35.2019/54/G. dated 12th April, 2023 issued by General Administration Department, Government of 
Gujarat. 
Subject to provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Articles of Association of the Company, so long as Shri Milind Torawane, IAS, 
is the Managing Director of the Company, his position is not liable to retire by rotation. However, in view of his appointment as an 
Additional Director and Managing Director w.e.f. 13th April, 2023, the appointment of Shri Milind Torawane, IAS, is being regularized. It 
may also be noted that the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder for appointment of Managing Director 
are not applicable to your Company as your Company is a Government Company. It is also disclosed that Shri Milind Torawane, IAS and 
his relatives are not holding any equity shares of the Company. 
11
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
As per the provisions of section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Articles of Association of the Company, he holds the office of 
Director till the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting. A notice under section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013, has been received 
from a shareholder, signifying the intention to propose his candidature for continuing his appointment as a Director of the Company. It 
is to be noted that Shri Milind Torawane, IAS shall continue to hold the position of the Managing Director of the Company w.e.f. 13th 
April, 2023 pursuant to the aforesaid communication dated 12th April, 2023 of General Administration Department, Government of 
Gujarat till further orders by Government of Gujarat in this regard.
Accordingly, the Board recommends the said resolution in relation to regularization of his appointment, for your approval by passing 
an ordinary resolution.
His brief profile, the nature of his expertise in specific functional areas, disclosure of relationships between directors, inter-se, names 
of companies in which he holds Directorship, Committee Memberships/ Chairmanships, his shareholding etc and other information is 
annexed to this Explanatory Statement.
Copy of aforesaid communication from General Administration Department, Government of Gujarat would be available for inspection 
through electronic mode.
None of the Directors/Promoters or Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) or relatives of Directors/Promoters and KMPs, except Shri. 
Milind Torawane, IAS, is concerned or interested in the Resolution at Item No. 7 of the Notice. Shri. Milind Torawane, IAS and his 
relatives, if any, are interested or concerned in the Resolution concerning his appointment proposed at Item No. 7.
Item No. 8 Ratification of remuneration of Cost Auditors for FY 2023-24.
The Board of Directors at its Meeting held on 2nd August, 2023, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, appointed M/s 
Kailash Sankhlecha & Associates, (firm Registration No. 100221) as the Cost Auditors to conduct the Audit of the cost accounts / 
records maintained by the Company for the Financial Year 2023-24 at the remuneration of Rs 1,18,000/- (Rupees One Lakh 
Eighteen Thousands only) + GST and out of pocket expenses.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force, the said remuneration payable for 
FY 2023-24 to M/s Kailash Sankhlecha & Associates, Cost Accountants as Cost Auditor is required to be ratified by the Members of 
the Company.
Therefore, the Directors recommend the Resolution at Item No. 8 of this Notice for your ratification / approval.
None of the Directors/Promoters or Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) or relatives of Directors/Promoters and KMPs is / are, in any 
way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the aforesaid Resolution No. 8 of this Notice. 
12
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
ANNEXURE TO THE EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
Information pursuant to Regulation 36 (3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 and Secretarial Standards on General Meetings (SS-2) of Directors seeking appointment / re-appointment / 
continuation of appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting
13
Name of Director
DIN No.
Date of Birth
Date of the first 
appointment on the Board
Qualifications
Nature of Expertise / 
Experience 
Terms and Conditions of 
Appointment and details 
of Remuneration
Names of other 
Companies in which the 
person also holds the 
directorship including 
listed entities
No. of Share held including 
shareholding as beneficial 
owner
Memberships/ 
Chairmanships of 
committees of Board of 
Directors of Company
Shri Raj Kumar, IAS
00294527
06/01/1965
21st July, 2022
He possesses a degree of B.Tech. in Electrical 
Engineering and M. Sc. in Public Policy.
He is a Senior IAS Officer having rich experience in 
the field of Management & Administration. He 
commands a very vast and varied experience. As 
an IAS officer, he has worked in various capacities 
covering a very wide spectrum of Government 
departments, both at State and Central level. 
Presently, he is the Chief Secretary to 
Government of Gujarat. Before being appointed as 
Chief Secretary, to Government of Gujarat, he 
served as Additional Chief Secretary, Home 
Department, Government of Gujarat, Secretary, 
Department of Defence Production, Ministry of 
Defence, Govt of India. He has been 
Chairman/Managing Director/ Director in many 
Central & State PSUs, during his tenure in 
government service. During his long spanning 
career, he has also participated in various national 
and international training programmes covering a 
wide range of topics. He has received many 
awards during his career in recognition of 
excellence in service and he also has several 
publications to his credit.
Nominee Director. He does not draw any 
remuneration from Company except out of 
pocket expenses for attending meeting of 
Board/Committee of Directors.
Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited
Gujarat State Petronet Limited
Diamond Research and Mercantile City Limited
GSPL India Transco Limited
GSPL India Gasnet Limited
Gujarat State Fertilizer & Chemicals Ltd.
Gujarat Maritime Board
Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited
Nil
Nil
Shri. JP Gupta, IAS
01952821
01/07/1965
9th August, 2023
He possesses a degree of B.E. (Mech. Engg.), LL.B., 
M.A. (Public Administration). 
He is a Senior IAS Officer having rich experience 
in the field of Management & Administration. He 
has held various important positions in 
Government of Gujarat (GoG) including 
Commissioner at Health & Medical Edu Dept., 
Commissioner of Health at Health & Family 
Welfare Dept., Mission Director at State Rural 
Health Mission, Commissioner at Transport Dept. 
Gandhinagar, Spl. Commissioner at Finance Dept. 
Commercial Taxes Ahmedabad, etc. He has 
served as Director on the Board of various 
Companies including Bhavnagar Energy 
Company Limited, Gujarat Water Infrastructure 
Limited, Gujarat State Investment Limited, The 
Gujarat State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited, 
Guj Info Petro Limited, Gujarat Arogya Seva 
Private Limited, Gujarat Urban Development 
Company Limited, Gujarat Medical Services 
Corporation Limited. At present, he is Additional 
Chief Secretary, Finance Department, 
Government of Gujarat. 
Nominee Director. He does not draw any 
remuneration from Company except out of 
pocket expenses for attending meeting of 
Board/Committee of Directors.
Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited
Gujarat State Investment Limited
Gujarat State Financial Services Limited
Gujarat State Fertilizers & Chemicals Limited
Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilizers Co. Limited
Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals Limited
Gujarat International Finance-Techcity Company 
Limited (GIFTCL)
Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited
Gujarat Metro Rail Corporation (GMRC) Limited
Nil
Audit Committee – Member
Risk Management Committee - Chairman
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – 
Member
Project Committee – Member
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
ANNEXURE TO THE EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
14
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Chairman/ Member of the
Committees of other
Companies including listed 
entities
Names of listed entities 
from which a person has 
resigned in the past three 
years
No. of Meetings of the 
Board attended during the 
Financial Year (2022-23)
Disclosure of relationship 
between directors inter-se
Gujarat State Petronet Limited
Stakeholder Relationship Committee- Member
Project Management Committee-Chairman
Personnel Committee-Chairman
Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee-
Chairman
GSPC Committee of Directors for Financial 
Restructuring-Chairman
GSPC Committee of Directors for Onshore 
Blocks-Chairman
HR Committee-Member 
Project Committee-Chairman
Nomination & Remuneration Committee-Member
GSPL India Gasnet Limited
Audit Committee – Chairman
GSPL India Transco Limited
Audit Committee – Chairman
Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals Limited
Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation Limited
2
NA
Gujarat State Investments Limited
Audit Committee- Chairman
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee- 
Chairman
Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited
Audit Committee-Member 
Committee of Directors for Financial 
Restructuring-Member
Committee of Directors for Onshore block-
Member
Project Committee-Member
HR Committee-Member
Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals Limited
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee- 
Member
Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilizers and 
Chemicals Limited
Audit Committee- Member
Project Committee- Member
Gujarat State Fertilizers & Chemicals Limited
Finance-cum Audit Committee- Member
Risk Management Committee- Member
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee- 
Member
Gujarat State Financial Services Limited
Audit Committee- Member
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee- 
Chairman
Finance Committee- Chairman
Personnel Committee- Chairman
Investment Committee- Chairman
Asset Liability Management Committee- Chairman
Risk Management Committee- Chairman
Gujarat International Finance-Techcity 
Company Limited (GIFTCL)
Audit Committee- Member
Gujarat Metro Rail Corporation (GMRC) 
Limited
Audit Committee- Chairman
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee- 
Chairman
Project Committee- Member
Gujarat State Petronet Limited 
0 (appointed w.e.f. 9th August, 2023)
NA
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
ANNEXURE TO THE EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
15
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Name of Director
DIN No.
Date of Birth
Date of the first 
appointment on the Board
Qualifications
Nature of Expertise / 
Experience 
Terms and Conditions of 
Appointment and details 
of Remuneration
Names of other 
Companies in which the 
person also holds the 
directorship including 
listed entities
No. of Share held including 
shareholding as beneficial 
owner
Smt. Mamta Verma, IAS
01854315
01/04/1972
01/05/2023
She is MA with Psychology and has done Post 
Graduation in Physiology. 
She is a Senior IAS Officer having rich experience 
in the field of Management & Administration. She 
has held various distinguished positions in 
Government of Gujarat such as Collector, District 
Development Officer, Additional Industries 
Commissioner, CEO of Ahmedabad Urban 
D e ve l o p m e n t  A u t h o r i t y  a n d  S p e c i a l 
Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, Director, 
Municipal Administrator, CEO of Gujarat Urban 
Development Corporation, Secretary to 
Government, Industries and Mines Department. 
Presently, she is Principal Secretary to 
Government, Energy & Petrochemicals 
Department, Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar.
Nominee Director. She does not draw any 
remuneration from Company except out of 
pocket expenses for attending meeting of 
Board/Committee of Directors. 
Gujarat State Electricity Corporation Limited
Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited
Gujarat Energy Transmission Corporation Limited
Diamond Research and Mercantile City Limited
Torrent Power Limited
Gujarat Chemical Port Limited
Gujarat Power Corporation Limited
Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilizers & Chemicals 
Limited
Gujarat State Fertilizers & Chemicals Limited
Nil
Shri Milind Torawane, IAS
03632394
30/08/1972
13th April, 2023 as Managing Director (Director 
10/08/2017 to 29/12/2022)
He has done Bachelor of Engineering (Electronic 
& Telecommunication) and Masters in Public 
Administration at the Maxwell School of 
Syracuse University, USA.
He is a Senior IAS Officer having rich experience 
in the field of Management & Administration. He 
has held various important positions in 
Government of Gujarat (GoG) like Municipal 
Commissioner-Surat Municipal Corporation, 
Secretary-Housing & Nirmal Gujarat, Additional 
Chief Executive-Gujarat Urban Development 
Mission.
He has vast experience of working in the Finance 
Department of Government of Gujarat, as the 
Secretary (Expenditure) and also as the 
Secretary (Economic Affairs).
He had also served as the Managing Director of 
Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals Limited (GACL) 
and Gujarat State Investment Limited (GSIL). He 
has also served as Director on the Board of 
various Companies likes Gujarat State Financial 
Services Ltd (GSFSL), Gujarat State Electricity 
Corporation Limited (GSECL), Gujarat Mineral 
Development Corporation (GMDC), Gujarat Urja 
Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL), etc.
He, was awarded the best District Development 
Officer [District - Narmada (Rajpipla)] in the year 
2004-05. He was also declared the best 
Collector and District Magistrate in the year 
2007-08 and 2009-10 by the Government of 
Gujarat.
Executive Director. He does not draw any 
remuneration from Company. 
Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited 
Gujarat State Petronet Limited
GSPC LNG Limited
Sabarmati Gas Limited
GSPC Pipavav Power Company Limited
Gujarat State Energy Generation Limited
Petronet LNG Limited
GSPL India Transco Limited
GSPL India Gasnet Limited
Nil
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          By Order of the Board 
For Gujarat Gas Limited
Sd/-
Sandeep Dave
Company Secretary
Date: 29th August, 2023
Place: Ahmedabad
Registered Office : Gujarat Gas CNG Station, Sector 5/C, Gandhinagar – 382006, Gujarat 
Tel: +91-79-26462980 Fax + 91-79 26466249 website: www.gujaratgas.com E-mail: Investors@GUJARATGAS.com
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
ANNEXURE TO THE EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
Chairman/ Member of the
Committees of other
Companies including listed 
entities
Names of listed entities 
from which a person has 
resigned in the past three 
years
No. of Meetings of the 
Board attended during the 
Financial Year (2022-23)
Disclosure of relationship 
between directors inter-se
Nil
Nil
0 (appointed w.e.f. 1st May, 2023)
NA
GSPL India Gasnet Limited
CSR Committee – Chairman
Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – 
Member
Project Committee- Member
HR Committee- Member
Committee of Director for Financial 
Restructuring- Member
Committee of Directors for Onshore Blocks-
Member
Gujarat State Petronet Limited
Audit Committee – Member
Stakeholder Relationship Committee- Member
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – 
Member
Risk Management Committee- Member
Project Management Committee- Member
Personal Committee- Member
GSPC Pipavav Power Company
CSR Committee- Member
Nomination & Remuneration Committee-
Member
Project Committee- Member
Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation 
Limited
Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals Limited
Gujarat Industries Power Company Limited
2
NA
Memberships/ 
Chairmanships of 
committees of Board of 
Directors of Company
Stakeholder Relationship Committee - Member
Nomination and Remuneration Committee- 
Member
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee - 
Member
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Reporting 
Committee - Member
Audit Committee- Member
Risk Management Committee- Member
Project Committee- Member
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee - 
Member
HR Committee - Member
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
Dear Members,
Gujarat Gas Limited 
th
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting the 11  Annual Report and the Audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended on 
st
31  March 2023.
Revenue from Operations 
    17,306.16  
    16,787.35  
     17,306.16  
  16,787.35 
Other income 
         101.27  
           90.74  
          101.33  
         90.87 
Total income 
    17,407.43  
    16,878.09       17,407.49  
  16,878.22 
Profit before interest, depreciation and tax 
      2,493.26  
      2,155.14         2,493.32  
    2,155.27 
Less: Interest 
           40.35  
          56.82  
            40.35  
         56.82 
Depreciation 
         428.26  
        384.91            428.26  
       384.91 
Profit before tax 
      2,024.65  
      1,713.41         2,024.71  
    1,713.54 
Share of Profit from equity accounted investee 
                  -    
                  -                  2.86  
           1.62 
Minority Interest 
                  -    
                  -    
                  -    
              -   
Profit/(Loss) Before Tax and share of profit of associate 
      2,024.65  
      1,713.41  
       2,027.57  
    1,715.16 
Tax expenses 
         499.18  
         427.77  
          499.19  
       427.79 
Net Profit after tax for the period 
      1,525.47        1,285.64         1,528.38  
    1,287.37 
Other Comprehensive Income (after tax) (OCI) 
  
  
  
 
- Equity Instruments through OCI 
               6.22  
              2.12  
               6.22  
            2.12 
- Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligation,  
               2.30  
              0.57  
               2.30  
            0.57 
 net of tax 
- Share of Other comprehensive income of equity  
                  -    
                  -                  (0.16) 
         (0.01)
 accounted investee 
Total Comprehensive Income 
      1,533.99        1,288.33         1,536.74  
    1,290.05 
RETAIN EARNINGS: 
  
  
  
 
Profit carried to retained earnings 
      1,525.47        1,285.64         1,528.38  
    1,287.37 
Other Comprehensive Income carried to retained earnings 
             2.30  
             0.57  
              2.14  
           0.56 
Add: Undistributed profit /(loss) of earlier years 
      4,710.91        3,562.38  
       4,741.55  
    3,591.30 
Balance available for Appropriation 
      6,238.68        4,848.59  
       6,272.07  
    4,879.23 
Less: Appropriations: 
  
  
  
 
Distribution of ESOP trust fund 
                  -    
                  -                (1.04) 
              -   
Equity dividend 
 (137.68) 
 (137.68) 
        (137.68) 
     (137.68)
Surplus / (Deficit) retained 
      6,101.00  
      4,710.91  
       6,133.35  
    4,741.55 
Earnings per Share (Face value of Rs. 2 each)  
           22.16  
           18.68  
            22.20  
         18.70
(Basic & Diluted) 
     Particulars 
17
 Financial Highlights
Standalone Financials
Consolidated Financials
12 Months
ended
31/03/2023
12 Months
ended
31/03/2022
12 Months
ended
31/03/2023
12 Months
ended
31/03/2022
(` in Crores)
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS  
1. 
Gujarat Gas adjudged as the ‘Star PSU of the Year’ at The Economic Times Energy Leadership Awards 2022.
2. 
GGL credit rating upgraded to AAA/Stable (highest rating level) from AA+/Positive by CRISIL and India Ratings & Research.
3. 
Prepayment of long-term loan of ` 447 crores during FY 2023 making GGL a debt free company.
4. 
Highest ever Profit after Tax of ` 1,525.47 Crores (19% higher than FY ’22)
5. 
Highest ever CNG volumes at average 2.43 mmscmd in FY2023 on the back of growth in station infrastructure (22% higher 
than 1.99 mmscmd in FY 2022).
6. 
Highest ever 1.79 Lakh Domestic customers commissioned in FY 2023 (16% higher than 1.54 Lakh in FY 2022).
7. 
102 new CNG stations in FY 2023; crossing milestone of 800 CNG stations.
8. 
Government of Gujarat has reduced VAT on Dom & CNG consumers to 5% from 15%, improving competitiveness vis-à-vis 
alternate fuel.
9. 
GOI has revised APM Gas pricing methodology; at 10% of the Indian Crude Basket Price subject to a floor of $4 and a ceiling of 
$6.5/mmbtu w.e.f. 8th April, 2023. From FY 2025-26, floor and ceiling to be increased by $0.25/mmbtu each year. Cost 
reduced from $8.57 to $6.50/mmbtu increasing competitiveness of Gas to alternate fuels at reduced prices. 
10. Managed challenging scenario of unprecedented surge in spot prices by balancing the volumes and limiting price increases via 
continued engagement with customers / stakeholders.
st
11. Implemented India’s 1  Pilot Project for Green Hydrogen blending with PNG Domestic supplies at NTPC Kawas Township, GGL 
Surat & Hazira GA have successfully completed taking in 5% blended Hydrogen in DPNG network with supply to 150+ numbers 
of households.
12. Electrical Vehicles (EV) charging facility commissioned at company owned CNG station at Kevadia as a pilot project with Tata Power.
DIVIDEND
th
Your Directors recommend for consideration of the shareholders at the 11  Annual General Meeting, the Dividend of ` 6.65/- per fully 
paid up equity share of ` 2/- each (332.5%) on 68,83,90,125 equity shares for the Financial Year 2022-23. This is 232.5% higher 
than FY ’22 wherein dividend payout was ` 2 per share. During this year, Dividend Distribution Policy has been amended by the Board 
to include Government Guidelines as one of the factors for making dividend recommendation and the same has been considered for 
recommending proposed dividend for the Financial Year 2022-23. The weblink for Dividend Distribution Policy is available at 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/resources/downloads/dividend-distribution-policy-w-e-f-10th-may-2023.pdf 
SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES
Your Company does not have any subsidiary and joint venture. Guj Info Petro Limited is the Associate of your Company and the 
statement containing salient features of financial statements of Guj Info Petro Limited under first proviso to sub section (3) of section 
129 in form AOC-1 is attached at Annexure-5.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company represents consolidation of Financial Statements of Guj Info Petro Limited 
(GIPL), the associate company and Gujarat Gas Limited Employees Welfare Stock Option Trust (ESOP Trust), in accordance with IND 
AS. The Audited Consolidated Financial Statements are provided in the Annual Report.
DEPOSITS
During the year under review, your Company has not accepted deposits from the public falling within the ambit of Section 73 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014.
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR INVESTMENTS
The details of Loans, Guarantees, Securities and Investments, if any covered under the provisions of Section 186 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 are given in the Notes to the Financial Statements.
PARTICULARS OF CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS WITH RELATED PARTIES
All Related Party Transactions that were entered into during the financial year were on an arm’s length basis and were in the ordinary 
course of business. A statement giving details of all Related Party Transactions is placed before the Audit Committee for approval/ 
ratification on a quarterly basis, as the case may be. The policy on materiality of related party transactions and dealing with related 
party transactions as approved by the Board is uploaded on the Company’s Website. None of the Directors has any pecuniary 
relationships or transactions vis-à-vis the Company. The particulars of contracts or arrangements with Related Parties referred to in 
Section 188 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013, as prescribed in Form AOC - 2 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is enclosed 
herewith as Annexure -4 to this Report.
18
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
All transactions amount disclosed above are inclusive of tax.
STATEMENT ON COMPLIANCES OF APPLICABLE SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
Your Directors hereby confirm that during the year, the Company has been compliant with the applicable mandatory Secretarial 
Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
Disclosures of transactions of the Company with person or entity belonging to the Promoter/Promoter Group which 
hold(s) 10% or more shareholding in the Company
Gujarat State Petronet Limited - GSPL 
Holding Company  Gas Transmission Expense 
451.68 
542.13
 
 
Purchase of Natural Gas  
- 
2.23
 
 
Right of Way Expense (ROW)  
0.52 
0.10
 
 
Connectivity Charges 
1.69 
-
 
 
Business Transfer- CGD Business of  
- 
153.86
 
 
Amritsar & Bhatinda from GSPL to GGL  
 
 
Reimbursement of Expenses 
0.34 
0.28
 
 
Dividend Paid 
74.57 
74.57
 
 
Rent Expense 
2.85 
2.27
 
 
Recharge of Salary - Expense  
0.04 
0.04
 
 
Compression Charges  
- 
2.87
 
 
Reimbursement of Deposit Receivable  
0.28 
-
 
 
from Authorities 
 
 
O&M Charges - Income 
0.05 
0.04
 
 
Rent - Income 
0.03 
0.03
 
 
Reimbursement of Expenses - Income 
0.01 
10.01
 
 
Recharge of Salary - Income  
1.08 
1.03
 
 
Sale of Material - Income 
- 
0.23
 
 
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund)  
0.44 
(0.02)
 
 
[Other than Connectivity] 
 
 
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund)  
12.00 
4.00
 
 
[For Connectivity] 
 
 
Supervision Charges -Income 
- 
0.01
 
 
Interest on Late Payment 
- 
0.01
 
 
Asset Purchase 
8.05 
-
 
 
Balance at the period end 
 
 
 
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
(23.36) 
(19.36)
 
 
Deposits Asset / (Liability) – Net  
2.47 
2.03
 
 
[Other than Connectivity] 
 
 
Deposit (For Connectivity) 
51.32 
39.32
 
 
Bank Guarantee by GGL to GSPL 
52.92 
52.92
 
 
Letter of Credit by GGL to GSPL 
0.10 
0.10
(` in Crores)
 For Year 
ended 
31st 
March 
2023
For Year 
ended 
31st 
March 
2022
Name of Related Party
Relationship
Nature of Transactions 
& Balances
19
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
The Company has constituted a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee in accordance with Section 135 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and Companies 
(CSR Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021. Pursuant to provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company 
has also formulated a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy which is available on the website of the Company at 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/resources/downloads/corporate-social-responsibility-policy-wef-1st-june-2021.pdf. The Annual 
Report on CSR activities as required under the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and Companies (CSR 
Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021 is enclosed herewith as Annexure - 2 to this Report. Further as required by Rule 8 of Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, Executive Summary of Impact Assessment Report for eligible CSR Project issued 
by Independent Agency had been placed before the Board of Directors at its meeting held on 10th May, 2023 and is being also 
attached to the Annual Report at Annexure-2-A.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
Appointment and Resignation of Directors
Shri Raj Kumar, IAS had been appointed as Director with effect from 21st July, 2022 and his appointment was regularized in 10th 
AGM held on 29th August, 2022. Subsequently, Shri Raj Kumar, IAS, Chief Secretary, Government of Gujarat had been appointed as 
Chairman with effect from 21st February, 2023. 
Shri Pankaj Kumar, IAS (Retd.) has ceased to be the Director and Chairman of the Company with effect from 1st February, 2023, 
upon superannuation. Your Directors wish to place on record, appreciation for the services rendered by him as the Chairman of the 
Company.
Shri Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) had been appointed as Independent Director and Dr. Rekha Jain had been appointed as Independent 
Woman Director with effect from 20th April, 2022 for the first tenure of 5 years. In the opinion of the Board, the Independent 
Directors fulfill the conditions specified in SEBI (LODR) 2015 and are independent of management. The Shareholders have approved 
appointment of Shri Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) as Independent Director and Dr. Rekha Jain as Independent Woman Director by postal 
ballot in July, 2022 (with majority of 99.9968% and 99.9973%, respectively). The Board of Directors of the Company had appointed 
CS Manoj Hurkat, as the Scrutinizer for conducting Postal Ballot through E-voting process.
Shri Milind Torawane, IAS ceased to be Director of the Company with effect from 30th December, 2022 on account of his transfer. 
Subsequently, Shri Milind Torawane, IAS has been appointed as Additional Director and Managing Director of your Company with 
effect from 13th April, 2023. It is proposed to appoint Shri Milind Torawane, IAS in the ensuing 11th Annual General Meeting. Shri 
Sanjeev Kumar, IAS has ceased to be Managing Director with effect from 1st April, 2023 on account of his transfer and appointment 
as Principal Secretary to Government, Forests & Environment Department, Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar. Your Directors wish to place on 
record, appreciation for the services rendered by him as the Managing Director of the Company.
Smt. Mamta Verma, IAS, Principal Secretary, Energy & Petrochemicals Department (EPD), Government of Gujarat had been 
appointed as Additional Director with effect from 1st May, 2023. It is proposed to appoint Smt. Mamta Verma, IAS at the ensuing 
11th Annual General Meeting.
Shri. J.P. Gupta, IAS, Additional Chief Secretary, Finance Department (FD), Government of Gujarat, had been appointed as Additional 
Director with effect from 9th August, 2023. It is proposed to appoint Shri. J.P. Gupta, IAS at the ensuing 11th Annual General Meeting.
Dr. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, IAS has ceased to be Director of the Company with effect from 8th June, 2022, on account of his 
superannuation as Additional Chief Secretary Industries & Mines Department, Government of Gujarat. Your Directors wish to place 
on record, appreciation for the services rendered by him as Director of the Company.
Smt. Mona Khandhar, IAS, Principal Secretary (EA) Finance Department, Government of Gujarat had been appointed as Additional 
Director with effect from 20th February, 2023 and subsequently has ceased to be Director of the Company with effect from 9th 
August, 2023, on account of her transfer to Panchayats, Rural Housing & Rural Development Department, Government of Gujarat. 
Your Directors wish to place on record, appreciation for the services rendered by her as Director of the Company.
Shri Raj Kumar, IAS, Chairman will retire by rotation and it is proposed to reappoint him as the Director and Chairman of the Company 
in the ensuing 11th Annual General Meeting.
A brief resume of the Directors to be appointed at the ensuing Annual General Meeting, nature of expertise in specific  functional 
areas and details regarding the Companies in which the Directorship is held together with the Membership / Chairmanship of 
Committees of the Board along with other statutory details will be given in the Explanatory Statement forming part of the Notice of 
the 11th Annual General Meeting.
DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of Section 149 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013, the Independent Directors of the Company 
have given confirmation/declaration to the Board that they meet with the criteria of Independence and are Independent in terms of 
applicable provisions of Section 149 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013. Further, they have also given the confirmations on 
independence as per provisions of Regulation 16(1)(b) and 25 (8) of the Listing Regulations.
20
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
BOARD EVALUATION
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the performance evaluation of the Board, Committees and individual 
Directors for FY 2022-23 was carried out as per the terms and conditions of their appointment based on various parameters.
MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board meets at regular intervals to discuss and decide on Company / business policy and strategy apart from other Board 
business. The Board / Committee Meetings are pre-scheduled to enable the Directors to plan their schedule and to ensure meaningful 
participation in the Meetings. However, in case of a special and urgent business need, approval is taken by passing resolutions through 
circulation to the Directors, as permitted by law, which are noted in the subsequent Board/Committee Meetings.
During the period from 1st April, 2022 to 31st March, 2023, 4 (Four) Board Meetings were convened and held, the details of which 
are given in the Corporate Governance Report. The intervening gap between the Meetings was within the period prescribed under the 
Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015.
AUDITORS 
As your Company is a Government Company, the Statutory Auditors are appointed by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India 
(C&AG). Accordingly, the C&AG had appointed M/s. Manubhai & Shah LLP, Chartered Accountants as the Statutory Auditors of the 
Company for the Financial Year 2022-23. Auditors’ Report for FY 2022-23 of M/s. Manubhai & Shah LLP, Chartered Accountants 
are self-explanatory in nature and form part of financial statements of the Company. 
C&AG has carried out supplementary audit of the Financial Statements of your Company for the Financial Year 2022-23 pursuant to 
provisions of Section 143 (6) (a) of the Companies Act, 2013. The C&AG has issued Nil Comment Report on Financial Statements of 
the Company for the FY 2022-23 which forms part of financial statements of the Company.
ANNUAL ACCOUNTS
The Audit Committee at its Meeting held on 10th May, 2023, approved the Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended on 31st 
March, 2023 and recommended the same for approval of the Board. The same have been subsequently approved by the Board of 
Directors at its meeting held on 10th May, 2023.
SECRETARIAL AUDITOR
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Board of Directors of the Company had appointed M/s. Dhawal Chavda & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries to conduct the Secretarial Audit of the Company for the Financial Year 2022-23. The Report of 
Secretarial Auditor on Company's Secretarial Audit for the Financial Year 2022-23 is enclosed herewith as Annexure-3 to this 
Report. The Secretarial Audit Report is self explanatory in nature.
COST AUDITOR
Your Company is required to carry out Cost Audit pursuant to Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Companies 
(Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014. 
Your Company had appointed M/s Ashish Bhavsar & Associates, Cost Accountants as Cost Auditors for the FY 2022-23. 
Accordingly, Cost Audit has been carried out for the Financial Year 2022-23. The Cost Audit Report for FY 2022-23 will be 
submitted to the Central Government in the prescribed format within stipulated time period.
As required under the Companies Act, 2013, the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor is required to be placed before the 
Members in General Meeting for their ratification. Accordingly,  resolution seeking Member's ratification for the remuneration payable 
to the Cost Auditors for FY 2023-24 will be included in the Notice convening the 11th Annual General Meeting.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
Risk Management
The Company has a well-defined Risk Management Framework for reviewing the major Risks and has adopted a Business Risk 
Management Policy. Further, pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 21 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee inter-alia to monitor the Risk 
Management Plan of the Company.
Internal Control System
The Company has a proper and adequate system of Internal Controls commensurate with its size of operations and nature of 
business. These are regularly tested and certified by Auditors. Significant audit observations of audit team and follow up actions 
thereon are reported to the Audit Committee. The details about the identification of elements of Risk and Internal Control Systems 
are provided in detail in the Management Discussion & Analysis Report forming part of this Board’s Report.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS 
The Company has in place adequate internal financial controls, with reference to financial statement. The internal financial controls 
have been documented in the business processes. Such controls have been assessed during the year under review and were 
operating effectively.
21
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
VIGIL MECHANISM
The Company has established a Vigil Mechanism to report genuine concerns, details of which have been given in the Corporate 
Governance Report forming part of this Boards' Report. Though there was no compliant under Vigil Mechanism, however Company 
has identified fraud, summary of which is captured below: 
There were gas Pilferage and manipulation of metering data identified in two Industrial Units in Dadra Nagar Haveli Geographical Area 
(GA) in January, 2023.  The cross functional team (CFT) constituted to investigate the same concluded that contract employee of 
Gujarat Gas Limited was involved in malpractice, in collusion with the customers, which resulted in monetary loss to Company. The 
CFT also recommended preventive measures for such cases which are being implemented. 
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT (HSE)
Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) is a core value in GGL. GGL believes that outstanding business performance requires 
outstanding HSE performance. GGL aims to protect the health and safety of its employees, contractors & their staff, customers and 
general public in our operation area, to minimize the environmental impact associated with our business processes and to assure the 
integrity and safe operation of our assets. 
GGL recognizes that the protection of the health and safety of all those involved in its operation and public along with protection of 
the environment is the prime responsibility of company and its’ management at every level. 
GGL operations are driven by the goal of zero injuries and seek to encourage a culture of excellence and drive forward for continual 
improvement in HSE performance.
QHSE commitment & Certification
GGL ensures that all its management decisions reflect its Quality, Health, Safety & Environment (QHSE) intentions. GGL is committed 
that its QHSE management system complies with all applicable legal requirements including acts, regulations, standards, guidelines 
and code of practices for Health Safety & Environment (including directives issued by legal, statutory or regulatory bodies) and 
follows best industrial practices. GGL aims to continue as an industry leader in City Gas Distribution business through its QHSE 
performance. GGL has established its Quality, Occupational Health, Safety & Environment (QHSE) management system with 
reference to international standards ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 & ISO 45001:2018 and successfully completed its 
recertification audit as per mentioned ISO standards. The certifications demonstrate sustenance and company’s continued 
commitment to quality, health, safety and environment management and customer satisfaction which is the key to sustainable 
business performance. GGL has 160 Standard Operating Procedures and Guidelines for seamless and safe functioning of various 
aspects of business. In FY 2022-23 GGL has revised around 25 of its existing SOP & Guidelines to adapt to the changing business 
dynamics, operational requirements with respect to implementation at site and to increase the quality, safety & operational efficiency 
with an aim of continual improvement of the management systems at GGL.
Projects with highest level of Safety & Risk levels at ALARP
GGL in last few years has embarked into new areas in terms of geography with inclusion of new Geographical Areas in the states of 
Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh & Rajasthan and into new business areas in terms of faster reaching customers in our operational 
areas by supplying of Natural Gas using regasification of LNG, decompression of CNG for areas where pipeline laying project may take 
significant time. GGL takes extra HSE precautions for all such new areas of geography and business. Risk assessment through safety 
engineering studies has been at the fore-front of all such projects where we conduct studies like Hazard Operability (HAZOP), 
Quantitative Risk assessment (QRA), Escape Muster Evacuation & Rescue Analysis (EMERA) and Hazardous Area Classification 
(HAC) for all types of Gas installations at the planning stage itself and compliance to recommendations of these studies so that risks 
can be mitigated. GGL assets have been designed, constructed, commissioned, operated and maintained, such that the risks to 
personnel & public / society are reduced to as low as reasonably practicable (ALARP). 
GGL had in past carried out Environmental impact assessment for pipeline projects passing through environmental/ecological 
sensitive areas/zones in Palghar district & Thane Rural GA to determine the potential environmental, social effects of the proposed 
project. The results of these study along with mitigation plan were presented to authorities. GGL has received Environmental 
Clearance from Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change for two such projects in Palghar district & Thane rural GA in FY 
2022-23. 
GGL this year also continued special focus on safety aspects at projects especially at new Geographical areas with implementation of 
HSE management system at new GA relevant to project requirement, trainings, visits & meetings by management team members 
focusing on safety requirements.
HSE Compliance Assurance & Audits
GGL conducts its business in a safe and responsible manner and ensures compliance with the all legal and regulatory requirements. 
Compliance assurance is confirmed through audits / inspections with respect to all applicable PNGRB regulations and other standards 
covering all geographical areas of GGL every year including this financial year. 
GGL has successfully conducted compliance audits & applicable recertification audits with respect to below listed PNGRB regulations 
through PNGRB empaneled Third Party Inspection Agency (TPIA) for Geographical Areas. 
22
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
• 
First ERDMP Certification Audits: Successfully completed for Eight (8) new Geographical Areas – Narmada GA, Ahmedabad 
Rural GA, Jalore-Sirohi GA, Ujjain-Dewas-Indore GA, Jhabua-Banswara-Ratlam-Dungarpur GA, Ferozepur-Faridkot-Sri 
Muktsar Sahib GA, Hoshiarpur-Gurdaspur GA and Sirsa-Fatehabad-Mansa GA in line with PNGRB Codes of Practices for 
Emergency Response and Disaster Management Plan, Regulations in FY 2022-23.
• 
First T4S & IMS Certification Audits: Successfully completed for Seven (7) new Geographical Areas - Narmada GA, 
Ahmedabad Rural GA, Jalore-Sirohi GA, Ujjain-Dewas-Indore GA, Jhabua-Banswara-Ratlam-Dungarpur GA, Ferozepur-
Faridkot-Sri Muktsar Sahib GA and Hoshiarpur-Gurdaspur GA in line with PNGRB Technical Standards and Specifications 
including Safety Standards (T4S), regulations & PNGRB Integrity Management System (IMS), Regulations in FY 2022-23.
• 
Periodic IMS Certification Audits: Successfully completed for Fourteen (14) Geographical Areas – Surat Ankleshwar Bharuch 
GA, Hazira GA, Dahej GA, Navsari GA, Valsad GA, Bhavnagar GA, Gandhinagar GA, Nadiad GA, Jamnagar GA, Rajkot (including 
Morbi) GA, Surendranagar GA, Kutch GA, Amreli GA, Dahod GA as per the defined periodicity of TPIA audits, in line with PNGRB 
Integrity Management System (IMS), Regulations in FY 2022-23.
• 
Periodic T4S Audit: Successfully completed for Two (2) Geographical Areas – Amreli GA and Dahod GA as per the defined 
periodicity of TPIA audits, in line with PNGRB Technical Standards and Specifications including Safety Standards (T4S), 
Regulations in FY 2022-23.
No major non-compliances were observed during above mentioned audits, most of the observations arising out of these audits are 
being addressed on priority basis.
Key Safety Index
The safe delivery of projects and safe operations of assets is a critical success factor for the company’s business. GGL sets HSE 
targets and closely monitors it to achieve continual improvement in QHSE performance.
GGL recognizes that leadership commitment is fundamental for continual improvement in HSE performance. GGL management team 
members review HSE performance on regular basis. 
GGL is committed to protect Safety, Health and Well-being of people working for the organization. Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) 
is the industry standard key indicator which is used to measure GGL’s occupational safety performance. 
• 
GGL has achieved Lost Time Injury Frequency of 0.309 for the FY 2022-23. 
• 
Total man-hours of GGL in FY 2022-23 is 29.09 Million. 
Mock-drills
GGL has a well-developed and certified Emergency Response and Disaster Management Plan through PNGRB approved Third Party 
Inspection agency (TPIA) for each of its operational Geographical Areas. GGL conducts mock-drills at defined intervals to check 
adequacy of preparedness against various anticipated emergency scenarios across all locations. 
In FY 2022-23, GGL carried out 
• 
Level-1 Mock-drills – 112 numbers
• 
Level-2 Mock-drills involving local emergency services/mutual aid partners - 54 numbers
• 
Level-3 Mock-drills including participation in the offsite mock drills organized by District authorities – 23 numbers
GGL Lifesaver Rules & Compliances
GGL has well defined Lifesavers rules for work related to safety critical areas such as Safe Systems of Work, Excavation-HDD-Boring, 
Working at Height, Lifting, Confined Space Entry, Driving, Gas Escape Handling, Electrical, CNG Handling & LNG Handling.
All critical activities are covered under these defined 10 lifesaver areas which are monitored throughout the year using Lifesaver 
compliance / Work place inspection checklists defined based on lifesaver rules. In FY 2022-23, GGL has achieved ~ 93% compliance 
to lifesavers rules.
HSE Initiatives
To improve HSE performance, various HSE initiatives and programs are implemented as part of HSE improvement plan such as Safety 
tours by Management, awareness sessions with frontline workers and supervisors on various aspects of Safety, Utility coordination, 
Safety awareness workshops at local schools across operational areas, campaign activities related to lifesaver areas, Hazard hunt 
activities, special drives to check compliance in defined focus areas etc. In FY 2022-23, GGL has achieved more than 97% 
compliance to its HSE improvement plan.
GGL encourages participation and involvement of its employees and contractor staff in HSE related activities through monthly HSE 
committee meetings, Hazard and Near miss reporting, monthly quiz, risk assessment, work place inspections, various campaigns and 
celebration of HSE events and numerous safety awareness programs.
GGL has also established a system for evaluating contractor performance on monthly basis. Quality & HSE performance has been 
made an essential part of this performance evaluation with pre-defined key indicators. 
23
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
24
HSE Awareness & Trainings
GGL always ensures that safety training programs are conducted periodically for employees and contractor staff. GGL also organizes 
various safety awareness programs including awareness regarding Natural Gas related safety for its customers, general public, 
employees, contractors and other stakeholders such as third-party utility in FY 2022-23:
• 
627 numbers of Natural Gas safety awareness program have been conducted for general public, customers and other utility 
companies.
• 
1970 numbers of Safety & Technical Competency Training programs have been conducted which includes Basic Safety, Practical 
Fire-fighting, First Aid Treatment, Defensive Driving, Working at height and other Technical Competency trainings in various 
areas such as GI Plumbing, CNG filling, Welding, CGD O&M, LCNG O&M etc.
• 
1231 numbers of Safety Awareness Programs have been conducted for employees and contractors.
GGL also educates and influences various third-party utility companies and their contractors who undertake 
digging/excavation/drilling activities on or near the underground, GGL gas pipeline network. This is done to focus on the safety risks 
and environmental impact of the release of Natural gas which can occur as a result of damaging GGL’s natural gas pipelines while 
digging/excavation/drilling operations. The third parties are urged to dial in to GGL to confirm the pipeline location prior to starting any 
digging/excavation/drilling activities so that damage to Natural gas pipeline network can be prevented.
Celebrating HSE Events at GGL
GGL, being a prudent organization, celebrates various HSE related events like National Safety Week, Road Safety Week and World 
Environment Day. 
GGL celebrated National Safety Week in March 2023. Focusing on this year’s theme “OUR AIM – ZERO HARM”, below mentioned 
special activities were accomplished across all locations of GGL
• 
Display of custom National Safety Week banners and Health & Safety Pledge ceremony at all offices & various sites involving 
employees and contractor staff
• 
Natural Gas Safety Awareness session for School / College students 
• 
‘Essay Writing Competition’ on topics of HSE for employees
• 
‘Story Writing Competition’ with a message on Safety for children of employees
• 
Contractor Engagement session at Site – NSW Awareness, Safety pledge, Safety reporting, Hazard hunt etc.
• 
Demonstration of PPEs and session on use of PPEs & its importance across all GA & corporate offices
• 
Spot quiz on Safety with employees and contractor staff
GGL celebrated Road Safety Week in January 2023. Below mentioned activities were done across all locations of GGL
• 
Display of custom Road Safety Week banners & Group gathering at GGL Offices & Road Safety message to employees by 
Management
• 
‘Poster competition’ on Road safety for children of employees
• 
Special drive on Vehicle inspection covering CNG MCVs and LNG Tankers
• 
Awareness Session on Driving Safety for MCV/LNG tanker/Hired vehicle drivers
• 
Eye check-up camp for CNG/LNG/Hired vehicle drivers
• 
Meeting with CNG/LNG Transport Agency owners to reinforce safety culture and compliance requirements among drivers
GGL in its contribution under the theme Actions@75 of the government led initiative ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ through various 
initiatives/actions along with commitments to collectively create a better tomorrow by contributing in the field of Environment 
Protection. GGL celebrated World Environment Day (WED) to encourage awareness and implement actions for the protection of our 
environment. Below mentioned activities were carried out across all locations of GGL
• 
Display of custom Environment Day/ Week banners & Group gathering at GGL Offices 
• 
Spot quiz on environment protection for GGL employees
• 
Sapling - Distribution & Plantation across all locations of GGL
• 
‘Poster competition’ on ‘Only one Earth’ for children of GGL employees
• 
‘Poster competition’ on ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ for GGL employees focusing on GGL contribution to Environment Protection
• 
Awareness session on Environment Social Governance system
• 
Engagement with Contractors supervisors on Waste management (collection, handling and disposal)
All of these activities were done with an aim to involve employees, contractors, society at large and enhance their awareness 
regarding importance of Health Safety & Environment and related best practices.
HSE Rewards & Recognition at GGL
With an intention to motivate and foster a positive HSE culture and step-up HSE-AI compliance and performance, GGL has put in 
place HSE reward and recognition scheme to acknowledge significant HSE contribution of employees and contractor staff and to 
boost their confidence. Under this scheme:
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
• 
HSE contributor of the month among employees and contractor staff are identified on monthly basis at each geographical area 
and are rewarded during monthly HSE committee meeting. 
• 
Monthly Best Hazard & Best Near miss carefully selected based on quality and safety criticality and rewarded
• 
Best HSE Performer amongst all employees in every quarter for each operations area
• 
Best HSE Performer amongst all employees for Financial year for each operations area
GGL also conducted monthly online HSE Quiz based on HSE focus area to raise awareness amongst employees across GGL & winners 
of this quiz result are awarded each month.
Step up with Environmental, Social and Governance - ESG system
ESG is a system to measure the sustainability of a company or investment in three specific categories: environmental, social and 
governance. With intentions to grow & reduce costs in the long run and forge a sense of trust amongst consumers & stakeholders, 
GGL has decided to step up its HSE scorecard to align with ESG requirements. In that line, GGL Board of Directors have constituted 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) Committee to oversee all activities pertaining to GGL ESG-BRSR reporting. 
The Committee has responsibility to review & approve business policies, process, practices and adoption of other necessary matters 
including decision-making, risk management, target setting for material issues & opportunities relevant to the organization. GGL has 
identified policies related to HSE, Human Resources, Information Security, Customer & Community grievance redressal etc. which 
have been prepared or modified in line with ESG requirement. Also additional performance indicators have been identified to comply 
with ESG requirements and data has been recorded against the same. GGL has worked towards improvising systems and process 
with the resolve to implement all essential & identified leadership indicators relevant to GGL business & operations. GGL is publishing 
its BRSR report for FY 2022-23 as a part of Annual Report.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The Management Discussion & Analysis is as under:
1.      INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENTS
Natural Gas is the cleanest and most efficient of the fossil fuels. Natural Gas is used as a feedstock in several industries like fertilizers, 
plastics and other commercially important organic chemicals and used as a fuel for electricity generation, heating purpose in 
industrial and commercial units. Natural gas is also used for cooking in domestic households and as a transportation fuel for vehicles.
The global energy crisis triggered by the Russian invasion of Ukraine had put gas supply security and market stability at the center of 
policy interventions in 2022. During 2022 natural gas prices reached all-time high levels in Asian and European markets amid tight 
market conditions. Record high price levels were accompanied by excessive volatility and short term price variability.
During FY 2022-23, Natural Gas consumption has declined from 64.5 BCM (billion cubic meters) to 60.3 BCM (billion cubic meters) 
i.e. a decline of 6.5% as compared to previous year. Consumption of Natural Gas (NG) was driven by the fertilizer (33%) followed by 
1
CGD (20%), Power (14%) Refinery (7%), Petrochemicals (3%) and others (23%).
India’s natural gas consumption has declined by nearly 6.5% during the year as compared to the previous year as high prices squeezed 
gas demand for fertilizer (down 25% y-o-y), refining (down 50% y-o-y) and the petrochemicals sector (down 65% y-o-y) in 
particular. City gas demand was broadly flat with an increase of 4%, while consumption in the power segment increased steeply by 
45% and other segment (which include glass, metal, ceramic  and other small scale industries) also saw sharp increase of 95% during 
the year. India’s LNG imports dropped by approximately 16.5% while there was a 3.2% increase in domestic production.
25
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
1Source: PPAC MONTHLY REPORT (WEB) ON Natural Gas Production, Availability and Consumption March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
2. OPPORTUNITIES AND THREATS
The Government is promoting the usages of clean and green fuel, i.e. Piped Natural Gas (“PNG”) and Compressed Natural Gas (“CNG”) 
by expanding the coverage of CGD network in the country. In order to promote the natural gas usage in the country, the Government 
has issued guidelines for making available Domestic Gas to the CGD entities for meeting the entire requirement of CNG for transport 
sector and PNG for Domestic. However, owing to significant increase in demand for CNG and PNG (Domestic) categories, the 
Domestic Gas allocated is insufficient to meet the demand. The shortfall was being filled by sourcing gas at market rates. However, 
the auction guidelines for Domestic Gas has been altered wherein the CGD’s can source gas from Domestic Gas field (viz. HPHT 
fields).  While the above factors did lead to increase in prices in CNG & PNG (Domestic) categories; however the impact on demand in 
these categories was limited as prices of alternate fuels has also increased significantly. 
Recently the Government of India has approved the Kirit Parikh Committee Report for Natural Gas Pricing Reforms based on which 
the Domestic Gas Pricing Guidelines, 2014 has been amended. Based on the amended guidelines, the new Domestic Natural Gas Price 
(APM price) shall be 10% of the Indian Crude Basket Price as defined by Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) from time to 
time. The APM price shall be subject to a floor and a ceiling. The initial floor and ceiling prices shall be $4/MMBTU and $6.5/MMBTU 
respectively. The ceiling would be maintained for the next two years (FY 2023-24 and 2024-25) and then increased by 
$0.25/MMBTU each year. CGD companies, including your Company reciprocated by reducing CNG and PNG (Domestic) prices. This 
policy change shall impact CGD businesses positively by way of reduced Domestic gas purchase price leading to higher new 
conversions in CNG and PNG (Domestic) category.
Similar to any other business, the Company faces challenges in the form of stiff competition from other fuels due to accessibility and 
availability. The fuel also faces threat in the form of disparity in the tax structure compared to alternate fuels as PNG and CNG are still 
out of GST ambit. Notwithstanding these, your Company shall continue to focus placing environmentally clean Natural Gas to 
affordable markets for sustainable growth.
The Company has completed the Minimum Work Program (MWP) targets as applicable viz. PNG (Domestic) connections, Pipeline 
Inch- km laid, Compression Capacity and CNG Stations in the Geographical Areas of Surat-Bharuch-Ankleshwar, Valsad, UT of DNH, 
Dahej, Anand, Panchmahal and Amritsar GAs.
Further, the sector regulator has also notified Unified Tariff regulation for natural gas pipelines with a mission of “One Nation, One Grid 
and One tariff”. This reform will specially benefit the consumers located in the far-flung areas where currently the additive tariff is 
applicable and facilitate development of gas markets and vision of government to increase the gas utilisation in the country.
3. SALES AND MARKET PERFORMANCE
Your Company as on date has total 27 CGD licenses and operates in 44 districts across six states and one Union territory which 
accounts to c. 9% of total CGD licenses and c. 6% of total area authorised by PNGRB in India and also has one transportation pipeline 
license.
Your Company has an expanse of around 1,75,700 square kilometres of licensed area under its umbrella and continues to hold the 
position among the largest CGD Company in Country. Your company supplies natural gas to more than 19.28 lakh residential 
consumers, over 14,390 commercial customer and has erected / commissioned 808 CNG stations for vehicular consumers and 
provides clean energy solutions to over 4,360 industrial units through its wide spread operations with more than 35,650 kilometres 
of Natural Gas pipeline network.
26
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Crude Oil prices have always been at the base of all energy prices including Natural Gas. The crude oil prices increased drastically 
during the 1st half of FY 2022-23. The Crude Oil prices crossed $100/bbl in the first quarter of the Financial Year.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
Your company has achieved a growth of 22% and 15% in CNG and commercial sales respectively compared to previous year. Your 
Company has continued its focused efforts for developing and growing PNG (Domestic) and CNG business. Your Company has 
connected more than 2,22,000 residential customers and commercialized more than 179000 residential customers, erected / 
commissioned 102 new CNG stations during the year.
4. 
OUTLOOK
The future outlook for natural gas in India depends on the growth in demand, the evolution of the pricing regime and the pace of gas 
infrastructure expansion. The demand will steadily rise with opening of the economy after the pandemic.
Your company has already adopted digitization of its critical processes and going forward also, your company shall leverage its 
endeavors for more digitization and aims to set benchmark in the CGD industry for complete E-Office, benefiting all the stakeholders 
viz. consumers, vendors, suppliers and employees. 
India’s Natural Gas supply and demand outlook is changing. The Government of India (GoI) wants to make India a gas-based economy 
by boosting domestic production. India has set a target to raise the share of gas in its primary energy mix to 15% by 2030 from about 
current level of 6%. To improve the share of Natural Gas and promote a gas-based and clean fuel economy, the GoI has adopted a 
systematic approach to focus on all aspects of the gas sector viz upstream, midstream and downstream including CGD network 
development.
Your Company has been continuously growing and expanding its horizon by venturing into new geographic areas and is committed to 
reach every possible Natural Gas user across its licensed expanse of around 1,75,700 square kilometres through its ever growing 
pipeline network spread across 44 districts in six states and one UT. Your Company shall continue to focus on growing the penetration 
in the current operating areas by increasing the PNG connections and additional CNG stations while tapping the untapped potential 
by expeditious rollout of distribution network in its operating Areas. With this focused endeavour, your Company shall continue its 
efforts in providing clean fuel solutions across all operational area to augment an energetic top-line and bottom-line in coming years.
27
Source : Petroleum Planning and Analysis cell's report for the month of March, 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
5. 
RISKS AND CONCERNS
As per EIA Short-Term Energy Outlook (STEO) April 2023 report, the Brent crude oil spot price forecast averages $85 per barrel (b) in 
2023, up $2/b from last month’s forecast. The higher price forecast reflects a forecast for less global production in 2023 and a 
relatively unchanged outlook for global oil consumption. Despite of higher price forecast, recent issues raise the potential that 
economic and oil demand growth will be lower than the forecast, which has the potential to result in lower oil prices.
Based on the data represented below it can be inferred that the Brent Crude Oil Spot average price is expected to be around $85/ bbl 
in 2023 and is expected to further reduce to around $81/ bbl in 2024 which may result in lower purchase cost of spot volumes 
required for meeting the shortfall volumes by your company for serving the various customer segments. 
28
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 
 
2022  
 
 
2023  
 
 
2024  
 
 Avg for the Year
 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3 
Q4 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3 
Q4 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3 
Q4 2022 2023 2024
Brent Spot Average 101.17 113.84 100.53 88.44 81.04 86.00 87.00 86.00 85.00 82.00 80.00 78.00 100.94 85.01 81.21
(dollars per barrel)
Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration | Short-Term Energy Outlook - April 2023
 INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND ADEQUACY
The Company has a proper and adequate system of Internal Controls commensurate with its size of operations and nature of 
business. The Company’s Internal Control Systems are further supplemented by extensive programs of audits, i.e. Internal Audit, 
Proprietary Audit by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India (C&AG) and Statutory Audit by Statutory Auditors appointed by the 
C&AG. The Internal Control System is designed to ensure that all financial and other records are reliable for preparing financial 
statements and other data and for maintaining accountability of assets and compliance with statutory requirements. The Company 
has mapped a number of business processes on to SAP system, thereby leading to significantly improved controls & transparency. 
Your Company also continues to invest in Information Technology to support various business processes and automating controls.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
The stand-alone net profit after tax (Total comprehensive income) for the current financial year 2022-23 increased to Rs 1,533.99 
Crores from Rs 1,288.33 Crores in the previous year. The Company had a healthy net cash inflows from operations of Rs. 2,377.96 
Crores during the financial year 2022-23. During the year, the Company has fully prepaid outstanding long term loan from internal 
accruals and there is no outstanding loan as on 31st March 2023.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
       Particulars 
 FY 2022-2023 FY 2021-2022
Debtors Turnover 
16.47 
18.66
Inventory turnover 
  781.48  
  924.77 
Interest Coverage  
        -    
    48.57 
Ratio
Current Ratio 
1.40 
1.17
Debt Equity 
0.00 
0.09
Operating Profit   
14.30% 
12.76%
Margin (%)
Net Profit Margin (%)  
8.81% 
7.66%
Return on Net Worth  
23.83% 
25.05%
Remarks
Net Credit Sales / Average Trade 
Receivable
Cost of goods sold or sales 
/Average Inventory (Natural Gas)
Earning for Debt Service / 
Interest for borrowing [Earning 
for Debt Service = Net Profit 
after taxes + Non-cash 
expenses/adjustment + Interest 
-Lease payments]
Current assets / Current liabilities 
net of customer deposit
Total Borrowing / Total Equity
Operating income / Revenue 
from operations
PAT / Revenue from operations
PAT / Average net worth
Reason for significant changes
NA
NA
Interest Coverage Ratio is 
improved due to prepayments/ 
repayment of Borrowings during 
the year. There is no outstanding 
debt as on 31st March 2023.
NA
Debt Equity ratio has improved 
due to prepayments/ repayment 
of Borrowings during the year and 
increase in total equity due to 
current year profits. There is no 
outstanding debt as on 31st 
March 2023.
NA
NA
NA
Previous year's ratios have been reclassified wherever necessary to confirm to the current period's presentation.
Investments were made in extension of pipeline network to reach new areas and in reinforcements and upgradation of existing 
network as required. Investments were also made to connect residential customers and augmenting the CNG infrastructure. 
Investments were also made to upgrade the IT infrastructure and integrate SAP to enhance reliability and enable scalability. No 
amount has been transferred to the General Reserve during the year.
Details of significant changes (i.e. change of 25% or more as compared to the immediately previous financial year) in key 
financial ratios, along with detailed explanations therefore, including:
HUMAN RELATIONS AND PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES
Your Company employed 1028 employees as on 31st March 2023. Your Company has a focus on building capabilities and developing 
competencies of its employees. The Company believes that training and development is of vital importance to create a climate where 
people maximize their technical skills and inner potential which can help the Company in capitalizing the emerging business 
opportunities through their involvement. During the year, employees were sent for various training programs and seminars to enhance 
their skills/knowledge. Your Company has in place an attractive policy of performance linked incentive to encourage and reward 
employee performance. 
There was no strike or lock-out during the year under review.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company believes that good governance can deliver continuous good business performance. The particulars on Corporate 
Governance as required under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, is incorporated as a part of 
this Board's Report at Annexure - 1.
ANNUAL RETURN
The Annual Return of the Company in the Form MGT – 7 is available on the website of the Company at 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/GGL/annual-return/  
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION, FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
The details about conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings and outgo is attached at Annexure – 6.
29
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
BOARD’S REPORT
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo-
The Company has incurred expenditure in Foreign Exchange to the extent of Rs. Nil during FY 2022-23 (Previous year FY 2021-22 
Rs. 0.62 Crores) and the Foreign Exchange Earnings during FY 2022-23 were Rs. Nil (Previous year FY 2021-22 Rs. Nil).
SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY THE REGULATORS OR COURTS
There are no significant material orders passed by the Regulators/Courts during the year, which would impact the going concern 
status of the Company.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Gujarat Gas Limited is dedicated towards fostering an atmosphere of transparency and accountability by working in partnership and 
empowering our stakeholders. To protect and for the benefit of all our stakeholders, we strive to promote sustainable development. 
GGL considers its responsibility towards sustainable development as an opportunity to succeed by taking actions which are 
beneficial for society as a whole.
We applaud SEBI’s introduction of the "Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting" ("BRSR") reporting structure, which 
includes comprehensive Environmental, Social, and Governance ("ESG") disclosures.
The first edition of our Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) forms part of the Annual Report, in which we 
attempted to provide all non-financial disclosures in accordance with clause (f) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 34 of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. The report provides all our stakeholders with a comprehensive 
view and insight into our Company's contribution to the economy, the environment and society, which can be utilized to showcase 
GGL’s dedication towards long-term growth. In order to meet the expectations of our investors and other stakeholders, we are 
improving the transparency of our report, as well as our strategic approaches to create value for our stakeholders while minimizing 
risk in the external environment. Statement on ESG is attached at Annexure-7 of the Board’s Report. 
FUND RAISING BY ISSUANCE OF DEBT SECURITIES BY LARGE ENTITIES
In view of requirements of SEBI Circular bearing No SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/144 dated 26th November, 2018, disclosures 
made in terms of para 4.1 of the said circular forms part of Audited Annual Financial Results of the Company. No funds have been 
raised by your Company during FY 2022-23.
DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
To the best of their knowledge and belief and according to the information and explanations obtained by them, your Directors make 
the following statements in terms of Section 134(3) (c) of the Companies Act, 2013:
a. 
that in the preparation of the annual accounts, financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2023, the applicable 
accounting standards have been followed and no material departures have been made from the same;
b. 
that accounting policies have been selected and applied consistently and judgment and estimates have been made that are 
reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31st March, 2023 and of the 
profit of the Company for the year ended on that date;
c. 
that proper and sufficient care has been taken for the maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and 
other irregularities;
d. 
that the annual financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis;
e. 
that proper internal financial controls were in place and that the financial controls were adequate and were operating effectively.
f. 
that systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws were in place and were adequate and operating 
effectively.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The Directors place on record their deep appreciation to employees of the Company at all levels for their hard work, dedication and 
commitment. The Directors are extremely grateful for all the support given by the Government of Gujarat at all levels. The Directors 
place on record their sincere thanks to the Promoters, Shareholders, Suppliers, Lenders and Customers for their valuable support, 
trust and confidence reposed in the Company.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
th
Date: 18  August, 2023   
         Raj Kumar, IAS
Place :  Gandhinagar 
Chairman
30
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
ANNEXURE – 1
A REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
* Including Directorship held in Private Limited Companies and Section 8 Companies.
** The above details represent Membership/ Chairmanship of Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee as 
per Regulation 18 and 20 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (including details of 
GGL).
+ Membership includes Chairmanship.
The Directors present the Company's Report on Corporate Governance as on 31st March, 2023
1. 
GGL's philosophy on Corporate Governance
 
Your Company believes that Corporate Governance is driven by the core values of the Company. Your Company promotes the 
values of customer orientation, team work, commitment, growth and trust. These reflect the Company's approach to all its 
stakeholders in the course of carrying out its business. The Company's values are portrayed in a set of strong Business Principles. 
These Business Principles are continuously communicated and reinforced with employees and contractors. The Company seeks 
to comply with all applicable legal, regulatory and license requirements and strives to work constructively with regulatory 
bodies.
2. 
Board of Directors
 
The Board has seven (7) Directors, 6 of whom are Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) and 1 Executive Director (ED). Four (4) of 
these are Independent Directors, which is in compliance with Regulation 17 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015. The details of composition of the Board as on 31st March, 2023, category as well as their 
Directorships on Board and Memberships in committees of companies, are given below:
Name of Director
Position/Category
*No. of 
Directorship 
including Gujarat 
Gas Ltd.
 1 
Shri Raj Kumar, IAS 
Promoter and Non-  
8 
1 
0
 
 
 
Executive Chairman
 2 
Smt. Mona Khandhar, IAS 
Promoter and Non-  
9 
3 
0
 
 
 
Executive Director
 3 
Shri. Sanjeev Kumar, IAS 
Promoter and Executive  
10 
4 
0
 
 
 
Director
 4 
Shri. Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) Non-Executive and  
1 
2 
1
 
 
 
Independent Director
 5 
Prof. Yogesh Singh 
 
4 
4 
1
 6 
Shri Bhadresh Mehta  
 
5 
6 
2
 7 
 Dr. Rekha Jain 
 
4 
2 
0
Sr.
No.
31
No. of Membership/ Chairmanship
in Board Committees in which
Chairman / Member**
Chairmanship
+Membership
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
The details of attendance of the Directors at the Board Meetings for FY-2022-23 i.e. from 1st April, 2022 up to 31st March, 
2023 and at the last Annual General Meeting is given below:
Note: 1. None of the Directors are related inter se  
 
2. No. of Shares held by Non Executive & Executive Director: Nil
 
3. Weblink for familiarization programme: 
 
 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/resources/downloads/details-of-familiarization-programme-22072022.pdf
Shri Raj Kumar, IAS 
3 
2 
Yes
Smt. Mona Khandhar, IAS 
0 
0 
NA
Shri. Sanjeev Kumar, IAS 
4 
4 
Yes
Shri. Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) 
4 
4 
Yes
Prof. Yogesh Singh 
4 
3 
Yes
Shri Bhadresh Mehta  
4 
4 
Yes
 Dr. Rekha Jain 
4 
2 
Yes
Names of the Directors
Number of Board 
Meetings held
while holding office 
Number of 
board meetings
attended while 
holding office
Attendance
at the last
AGM
Names of Listed Entities where Directorship is held along with category of Directorship
 Sr No. Name of Director 
Name of Listed Entities 
Category of Directorship
 
1 
Shri Raj Kumar, IAS 
Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation Limited 
Chairman
 
 
 
Gujarat State Petronet Limited 
Director
 
 
 
Gujarat Gas Limited 
Chairman 
 
2 
Smt. Mona Khandhar, IAS 
Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation Limited 
Director
 
 
 
Gujarat Gas Limited 
 Director
 
3 
Shri. Sanjeev Kumar, IAS 
Gujarat Gas Limited 
Managing Director
 
 
 
Gujarat State Petronet Limited 
Jt. Managing Director
 
 
 
Petronet LNG Limited 
Director
 
4 
Shri. Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) Gujarat Gas Limited 
Director
 
5 
Prof. Yogesh Singh 
Gujarat State Petronet Limited 
Director
 
 
 
Gujarat Gas Limited 
Director
 
6 
Shri Bhadresh Mehta  
Gujarat Gas Limited 
Director
 
 
 
Gujarat State Petronet Limited 
Director
 
 
 
Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilizers & Chemicals Limited Director
 
7 
 Dr. Rekha Jain 
Gujarat Gas Limited 
Independent 
 
 
 
 
Woman Director
32
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
The Board Meetings are generally held in Gandhinagar, including an option of virtual attendance. The Board meets at regular 
intervals to discuss and decide on various issues including strategy related matters pertaining to the business/Company. 
The Board meets at least once a quarter with a gap between two meetings not exceeding 120 days. It has remained the practice 
of the Company to place before the Board, all the matters listed in Part A of Schedule II of Regulation 17 (7) of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. The board agenda papers and other explanatory notes are 
circulated to the Directors in advance. The draft minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and its Committees are 
circulated to the Directors for their comments before being recorded in the Minute Books. Apart from this, approval of the Board 
is obtained through circulation of resolution to all the Directors in case some urgent/special situation arises. Such Circular 
Resolution is also noted in the next Board Meeting/Committee Meeting. The Directors also have access to all the information 
about the Company and are free to recommend inclusion of any matter in the agenda for discussion. Senior Management 
Personnel are invited to attend the Board Meetings to provide clarifications as and when required by the Board.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Sr No. 
Date of Board Meeting
 
1 
10th May, 2022
 
2 
3rd August, 2022
 
3 
10th November, 2022
 
4 
13th February, 2023
Disclosure regarding appointment/ reappointment of Director(s)
Information as required under Regulation 36 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, is annexed 
to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
3. 
Audit Committee
The composition of the Audit Committee on 31st March, 2023 is as follows:
 
1 
Shri. Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) 
Chairman
 
2 
Smt. Mona Khandhar, IAS   
Member
 
3 
Shri. Sanjeev Kumar, IAS 
Member
 
4 
Prof. Yogesh Singh 
Member
 
5 
Shri. Bhadresh Mehta 
Member
 
6 
Dr. Rekha Jain 
Member
Mr Sandeep Dave, Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Audit Committee. Mr Sanjeev Kumar, IAS is an Executive Director 
and remaining all the members of the Committee are Non-executive Directors. Shri. Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.), Prof. Yogesh Singh, 
Shri. Bhadresh Mehta and Dr. Rekha Jain are Independent Directors. All the members of the Committee are qualified professionals and 
have accounting or related financial management expertise. The quorum of the Committee is two (2) members, with presence of at 
least 2 Independent Directors.
Terms of reference / scope of Audit Committee is in line with the provisions of section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations, 2015 further the Audit Committee acts in accordance with the terms of reference, as specified in writing by the 
Board, which inter alia, includes;
(1) Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that the financial 
statement is correct, sufficient and credible;
(2) Recommendation for appointment, remuneration and terms of appointment of auditors of the Company;
(3)  Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other services rendered by the statutory auditors;
(4)  Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements and  auditor's  report  thereon  before  submission  to  the  
Board  for  approval,  with  particular reference to: 
 
(a) matters required to be included in the director’s responsibility statement to be included in the Board’s Report in terms of 
clause (c) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
 
(b)  changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same;
 
(c)  major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by management; 
 
(d)  Significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings;
 
(e)  compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements; 
 
(f)  disclosure of any related party transactions; 
 
(g) modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report;
(5)  Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial statements before submission to the Board for approval;
(6)  Reviewing, with the management, the statement of uses / application of funds raised through an issue (public issue, rights issue, 
preferential issue, etc.), the statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer document / prospectus 
/ notice and the report submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring the utilisation of proceeds of a public or rights issue, and 
making appropriate recommendations to the board to take up steps in this matter;
33
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
The Board Meetings were held as follows:
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(7)  Reviewing and monitoring the auditor’s independence and performance and effectiveness of audit process;
(8)  Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of the Company with related parties;
(9)  Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
(10)  Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary;
(11)  Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems;
(12)  Reviewing, with the management, performance of statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of the internal control systems;
(13)  Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, including the structure of the internal audit department, staffing and 
seniority of the official heading the department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit;
(14)  Discussion with internal auditors of any significant findings and follow up there on;
(15)  Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters where there is suspected fraud or 
irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material nature and reporting the matter to the Board;
(16)  Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well as post-audit 
discussion to ascertain any area of concern;
(17)  To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in case of 
non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors; 
(18)  To review the functioning of the vigil mechanism;
(19)  Approval of appointment of Chief Financial Officer after assessing the qualifications, experience and background, etc. of the 
candidate;
(20) Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the terms of reference of the audit committee.
(21)  reviewing the utilization of loans and/ or advances from/investment by the holding company in the subsidiary exceeding rupees 
100 crore or 10% of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower including existing loans / advances / investments.
The audit committee shall mandatorily review the following information: 
(1) Management  discussion  and  analysis  of  financial  condition  and  results  of operations; 
(2) Statement  of  significant  related  party  transactions  (as  defined by  the  audit committee), submitted by management; 
(3) Management  letters  /  letters  of  internal  control  weaknesses  issued  by  the statutory auditors;
(4) Internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses; and 
(5) The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor shall be subject to review by the audit 
committee.
(6) Statement of deviations: (a)quarterly statement of deviation(s) including report of monitoring agency, if applicable, submitted 
to stock exchange(s) in terms of Regulation 32 (1) (b) annual statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in 
the offer document/prospectus/notice in terms of Regulation 32(7).
 
Details of meetings of Audit Committee during FY-2022-23 i.e. from 1st April, 2022 up to 31st March, 2023 and 
attendance is as under:
34
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Sr.No. 
Date of Meeting 
Number of Members 
Attendance
 
1 
9th May, 2022 
6 
6
 
2 
10th May, 2022 
6 
6
 
3 
1st August, 2022 
6 
5
 
4 
3rd August, 2022 
6 
4
 
5 
9th November, 2022  
6 
5
 
6 
10th November, 2022 
6 
4
 
7 
10th February, 2023 
5 
5
 
8 
13th February, 2023 
5 
4
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
4. 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
 
The composition of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) as on 31st March, 2023, is as follows:
 
1. 
Shri Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) 
Chairman
 
2. 
Dr. Rekha Jain 
Member
 
3. 
Shri Bhadresh Mehta 
Member
 
Mr. Sandeep Dave, Company Secretary acts as Secretary of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. All the members of 
the Committee are Non-executive Directors. Shri Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.), Dr. Rekha Jain and Shri Bhadresh Mehta are 
Independent Directors. All the members of the Committee are qualified professionals. The quorum of the Committee is two (2) 
members with presence of at least 1 Independent Director.
 
The scope of this Committee is as under:
 
(1) formulation of the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director and 
recommend to the Board of directors a policy relating to, the remuneration of the directors, key managerial personnel and 
other employees;
 
(2)  formulation of criteria for evaluation of performance of independent directors and the Board of directors; 
 
(3)  devising a policy on diversity of board of directors; 
 
(4)  identifying persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be appointed in senior management in accordance 
with the criteria laid down and recommend to the board of directors their appointment and removal. 
 
(5)  whether to extend or continue the term of appointment of the independent director, on the basis of the report of 
performance evaluation of independent directors. 
 
(6)  recommend to the board, all remuneration, in whatever form, payable to senior management.
 
The performance evaluation criteria of Independent Director is in accordance with the Nomination and Remuneration Policy.
 
Details of meetings of NRC is as below:
 Sr.No. 
Date of Meeting 
Number of Members 
Attendance
 
1 
1st August, 2022 
3 
3
 
The Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company is framed pursuant to requirements of Section 178 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read along with the applicable rules thereto and Regulation 19 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
5. 
Board Evaluation
 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the performance evaluation of individual Directors for FY 2022-23 was 
carried out as per the terms and conditions of their appointment based on the various parameters.
6. 
Remuneration to Directors 
 
Apart from Sitting fees no other remuneration is paid to any Directors. Sitting fees of Rs. 7500/- per meeting are paid to the 
non-executive Directors for attending meetings of the Board of Directors and its Committees. The sitting fees for the 
Promoter-Directors is deposited in to the treasury of the State Government.
 
During the Financial Year 2022-2023 sitting fees of Rs.  8,25,000/- had been paid to directors for meeting of Board or its 
Committees, sitting fees of Government Directors had been deposited in Government treasury.
7. 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Business Responsibility & Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) Committee and Risk 
Management Committee
 
(a) Stakeholders Relationship Committee (SRC)
 
 
The Stakeholders Relationship Committee (SRC) has been constituted to approve share transfers, transmissions, 
consolidation, sub-division etc. and for redressal of complaints/requests received from the shareholders. 
 
 
The Company had received 49 letters of various types of requests, inquiries and complaints during the FY 2022-23. All the 
complaints were resolved to the satisfaction of the shareholders.
35
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
The composition of this Committee as on 31st March, 2023, is as under:
 
1. 
Shri Bhadresh Mehta 
Chairman
 
2. 
Shri Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) 
Member
 
3. 
Dr. Rekha Jain 
Member
 
Details of meetings of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee are as below:
 Sr.No. 
Date of Meeting 
Number of Members 
Attendance
 
1 
9th May, 2022  
3 
3
 
2 
1st August, 2022 
3 
2
 
3 
9th November, 2022 
3 
2
 
4 
10th February, 2023 
3 
3
 
Mr Sandeep Dave, Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Committee. The quorum of the Committee is two (2) 
members. 
(b) 
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) Committee 
 
The SEBI vide its Circular dated 10th May, 2021, with respect to Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting, had 
mandated that the Annual Report shall contain a Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) w.e.f. FY 2022-23. 
The BRSR seeks disclosures from listed entities on their performance against the nine principles of the ‘National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct’ (NGBRCs) and reporting under each principle is divided into essential and leadership indicators. 
Accordingly, the BRSR containing the required information forms part of this Annual Report. The Board of Directors have 
constituted the Business Responsibility & Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) Committee comprising of the below members for 
matters pertaining to the BRSR:
 
 
1 
 
Shri Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.), Chairman
 
 
2 
 
Prof. Yogesh Singh, Member
 
 
3 
 
Shri Bhadresh Mehta, Member
 
Any two (2) Directors shall form the Quorum of the Committee.
 
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Committee.
(c)  Risk Management Committee (RMC)
 
The RMC has been constituted with below mentioned scope of work:
 
(1) To formulate a detailed Risk Management Policy which shall include:
 
 
(a)  A framework for identification of internal and external risks specifically faced by the Company, in particular including 
financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability (particularly, ESG related risks), information, cyber security risks or any 
other risk as may be determined by the Committee. 
 
 
(b)  Measures for risk mitigation including systems and processes for internal control of identified risks. 
 
 
(c) Business Continuity Plan.
 
(2)  To ensure that appropriate methodology, processes and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks associated with 
the business of the Company; 
 
(3)  To monitor and oversee implementation of the Risk Management Policy, including evaluating the adequacy of risk 
management systems; 
 
(4)  To periodically review the Risk Management Policy, at least once in two years, including by considering the changing 
industry dynamics and evolving complexity; 
 
(5)  To keep the Board of Directors informed about the nature and content of its discussions, recommendations and actions to 
be taken; 
 
(6)  The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer shall be subject to review by the Risk 
Management Committee. 
36
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Date 
Time 
Venue (Deemed)
*29th August, 2022 
11:30 AM 
Gujarat Gas CNG Station, Sector 5/C, Gandhinagar – 382 006, Gujarat.
*28th September, 2021 12:00 P.M 
Gujarat Gas CNG Station, Sector 5/C, Gandhinagar – 382 006, Gujarat.
*24th September, 2020 12:00 P.M. 
Gujarat Gas CNG Station, Sector 5/C, Gandhinagar – 382 006, Gujarat.
 
* AGM held through electronic platform
 
In the last three Annual General Meetings, no special resolutions were passed.
9. 
Postal Ballot Resolutions
 
The Shareholders approved the Special Resolutions contained in the notice of the postal ballot including voting by electronic 
means (e-voting) dated 14th June, 2022 by way of Postal Ballot effective from 15th July, 2022 as below:
 
1. To approve appointment of Shri Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) [DIN: 00023872] as an Independent Director of the Company 
for a period of five years w.e.f. 20th April, 2022.
 
2. To approve appointment of Dr. Rekha Jain [DIN: 01586688] as an Independent Woman Director of the Company for a 
period of five years w.e.f. 20th April, 2022.
 
The aforesaid resolutions were approved (with majority of 99.9968% and 99.9973% respectively). The Board of Directors of 
the Company had appointed CS Manoj Hurkat as the Scrutinizer for conducting Postal Ballot through E-voting process.
10. 
Disclosures
 
There are certain transactions with Related Parties which have been disclosed at the relevant place in the Notes to the Financial 
Statements. No such Related Party Transactions has potential conflict with the interests of the Company at large. There is no 
non-compliance on any capital market related matter for FY 2022-23 on Stock Exchanges. Further, no penalty has been 
imposed either by SEBI or Stock Exchanges or any Statutory Authority on any capital market related matter during the last 
three years.
11. 
Means of Communication
 
The Quarterly and Annual Financial Results of the Company are normally published in one National Newspaper (English) and 
one Regional Newspaper. These results can also be viewed from the Company's website www.gujaratgas.com. Further, the 
Quarterly and Annual Financial Results and other required filings of the Company can also be viewed on the website of  National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (www.nseindia.com) and BSE Limited (www.bseindia.com).
 
Further no presentation was made to institutional investors or analysts during the year.   
 
The composition of this Committee as on 31st March, 2023, is as under:
 
Details of meetings of RMC are as below:
 
Mr Sandeep Dave, Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Committee. The quorum of the Committee is two (2) 
members. 
8. 
General Body Meetings:
 
Location and time of last three AGMs.
 
Annual General Meeting
 
 
Risk Management Committee 
 
1 
Smt. Mona Khandhar, IAS   
Chairperson
 
2 
Shri Bhadresh Mehta 
Member
 
3 
Dr. Rekha Jain 
Member
 
4 
Shri Sanjeev Kumar, IAS, MD 
Member
 
5 
Shri Nitesh Bhandari, CFO 
Member
 Sr. No. 
Date of Meeting 
Number of Members 
Attendance
 
1 
9th May, 2022 
5 
5
 
2 
1st August, 2022 
5 
5
 
3 
9th November, 2022 
5 
4
 
4 
10th February, 2023 
4 
4
37
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
12. 
Code of Conduct
 
Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management
 
The Board of Directors of the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct and made it applicable to the Board Members and 
Senior Management of the Company, who have complied with the same during FY 2022-23. The Code of Conduct has also 
been posted on the website of the Company.
 
Code of Conduct for Regulating, Monitoring and Reporting of Trading by Designated Persons and immediate 
relatives of Designated Persons 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, 
the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for Regulating, Monitoring and Reporting of Trading by Insiders and the Code of 
Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information. The Company Secretary acts as the 
Compliance Officer. This Code of Conduct is applicable to the Designated Person(s) and the Immediate Relative(s) of such 
Designated Persons of the Company who can have access to Unpublished Price Sensitive Information relating to the Company. 
It is also informed to the shareholders that the Code of Conduct has been updated/amended in line with SEBI Regulations from 
time to time. 
13. 
Vigil Mechanism
 
Pursuant to Section 177 (9) and (10) of the Companies Act, 2013 and the regulation 22 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Company has a Vigil Mechanism to report to the management instances of 
unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Code of Conduct of GGL. The said mechanism also provides for 
adequate safeguards against victimization of persons who use such mechanism and makes provision for direct access to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee in appropriate or exceptional cases. The Management affirms that no personnel of the 
Company was denied access to the Audit Committee. The Company has provided the details of the said Policy on the website 
of the Company at https://www.gujaratgas.com/pdf/vigil-mechanism-policy-08052020.pdf
14. 
Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and Dealing with Related Party Transactions
 
As required under regulation 23 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Company 
has formulated a Related Party Transactions Policy which has been disclosed on the website of the Company at: 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/resources/downloads/policy-on-materiality-of-related-party-transactions-wef-1st-april-
2022.pdf
15. 
Appointment of Independent Directors
 
The Company has issued formal letter of appointment to Independent Directors in the manner as provided in the Companies 
Act, 2013. The terms and conditions of appointment have also been disclosed on the website of the Company at 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/pdf/terms-and-conditions-of-appointment-of-independent-directors.pdf. The Board of 
Directors confirm that in the opinion of the board, the Independent Directors fulfill the conditions specified in SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015 and are independent of the management.  
 
 A chart or a matrix setting out the skills/expertise/competence of the board of directors specifying the following:
 
The aforementioned skills are available with the Directors of Gujarat Gas Limited.
38
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
List of core skills/ expertise/ competencies identified by the Board of Directors
Skills and expertise relating to energy, petrochemicals, oil and gas industry
Strategic thinking, advisory skills and Governance 
Policy development
Embrace the shared vision of the Company honesty and integrity leader and team  
objective
Directors who possess those skills
1.  Shri Raj Kumar, IAS
2. Smt. Mona Khandhar, IAS
3. Shri. Sanjeev Kumar, IAS
4. Shri. Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)
5. Prof. Yogesh Singh
6. Shri Bhadresh Mehta 
7.  Dr. Rekha Jain
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
16. 
Compliance of Discretionary Requirements as specified in Part E of Schedule-II
 
The financial Statements for the financial year 2022-23 are with unmodified audit opinion. 
17. 
Compliance of clause (b) to (i) of sub regulation 2 of Regulation 46
 
The Company has complied with (b) to (i) of sub regulation 2 of Regulation 46.
18. 
Compliance
 
Certificate regarding compliance with the Corporate Governance Code for the FY 2022-23 is annexed to this report.
19. 
Certificate from a Company Secretary in practice on Non Disqualification of Directors from appointment as 
Directors of the Company: 
 
The Company has obtained a certificate from M/s Manoj Hurkat & Associates, Company Secretary in Practice that none of the 
Directors of Company are disqualified from being appointed/ continuing as Director of the Company.
20. 
General Shareholder Information
 
A. Schedule & Venue of the 11th Annual General Meeting of the Company:
th
Day & Date 
Friday, 29  September, 2023
Time 
3:00 p.m.
Venue 
AGM through VC/OAVM
 
B. Financial Year:
 
 
The Financial Year of the Company starts on 1st April and ends on 31st March every Year.
 
C. Record Date:
 
 
The Record Date for the purpose of payment of Dividend is 11th September, 2023.
 
D. Dividend Payment:
 
 
Dividend if approved by the shareholders at the 11th Annual General Meeting will be paid on or before 28th October, 2023.
 
E. Listing on Stock Exchanges and Stock Code (w.e.f. 15th September 2015)
 
 
Details of listing of equity shares of your Company are given below along with stock codes:
 
 
Your Company's equity shares have been listed and trading on BSE Limited (BSE), National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(NSE), Ahmedabad Stock Exchange Limited (ASE) and Vadodara Stock Exchange (VSE) with effect from 15th September, 
2015. The ISIN of Equity Shares is INE844O01030. Further it is brought to the notice of Shareholders that SEBI vide its 
Order No. WTM/RKA/MRD/144/2015, dated 9th November, 2015, had provided the exit to Vadodara Stock Exchange 
Limited and in view thereof, the Company is no longer listed on VSE. It is also brought to the notice of the Shareholders that 
the Company had received a letter dated 11/01/2017, from Ahmedabad Stock Exchange Limited, wherein it has been 
informed that Ahmedabad Stock Exchange Limited (ASEL) is undergoing its exit policy and because of that all the 
Companies listed with ASEL are shifted to NSE, BSE, or dissemination Board, NSE, so the Company is requested to do all the 
Compliance with relevant exchanges where the Company is further listed or with Dissemination Board, NSE and not with 
ASEL. As your Company is already listed with NSE and BSE, no additional compliance is required.  
 
 
Address of Stock Exchanges where Equity Shares of Gujarat Gas Limited are Listed:
 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited  
 GUJGASLTD
 
Bombay Stock Exchange Limited  
 GUJGAS -539336
 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, 
BSE Limited 
 
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor, Plot No. C/1,  
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers 
 
G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Dalal Street
 
Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051 
Mumbai- 400 001
39
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
In view of the aforesaid, it is also informed to the Shareholders that Ahmedabad Stock Exchange Limited has not charged listing 
fees for FY 2017-18, FY 2018-19, FY 2019-20, FY 2020-21, FY 2021-22 and FY 2022-23 and is not providing the trading 
platform to the shareholders of the Company and there is not valid contract/agreement with the Company, in view of which 
your Company is no longer listed with Ahmedabad Stock Exchange Limited. 
 
Listing fees have been paid for the financial year 2022-23 and 2023-24 as per the requirements with the respective Stock 
Exchanges.
 
The Company has also entered into a tripartite agreement with National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL). The ISIN no. for Company's securities is INE844O01030.
F. 
Market Price Data
 
The Market price data on the BSE and NSE for the FY 2022-23 is given below: 
Equity Share Price on BSE
Month
G. 
Distribution of shareholding
 
The Distribution of Shareholding as on 31/03/2023 is given below:
Distribution Schedule - Consolidated As on 31/03/2023
 Category (Amount) 
No. of Cases 
% of Cases 
Total Shares 
Amount 
% of Amount
1-5000 
1,79,335 
97.615872 
1,74,03,437 
3,48,06,874 
2.528136
5001- 10000 
3,246 
1.766867 
1,44,82,960 
2,89,65,920 
2.103888
10001- 20000 
579 
0.315162 
43,65,045 
87,30,090 
0.634095
20001- 30000 
147 
0.080015 
19,14,522 
38,29,044 
0.278116
30001- 40000 
59 
0.032115 
10,68,291 
21,36,582 
0.155187
40001- 50000 
45 
0.024494 
10,25,389 
20,50,778 
0.148955
50001- 100000 
99 
0.053888 
36,44,428 
72,88,856 
0.529413
100001& Above 
205 
0.111586 
64,44,86,053 
1,28,89,72,106 
93.622211
Total 
1,83,715 
100.00 
68,83,90,125 
1,37,67,80,250 
100.00
40
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
April-2022 
541.5 
479 
60845.1 
56009.07 
541.6 
479 
18114.65 
16824.7
May-2022 
583.6 
479 
57184.21 
52632.48 
583.75 
480 
17132.85 
15735.75
June-2022 
578.45 
403.8 56432.65 
50921.22 
577.95 
403.55 
16793.85 
15183.4
July-2022 
469.8 
417.15 
57619.27 
52094.25 
469.8 
416.7 
17172.8 
15511.05
August-2022 
503.4 
434.15 
60411.2 
57367.47 
501.55 
429.7 
17992.2 
17154.8
September-2022 
534 
468 
60676.12 
56147.23 
533.3 
466.85 
18096.15 
16747.7
October-2022 
528 
462.35 
60786.7 
56683.4 
528.3 
462.5 
18022.8 16855.55
November-2022 
527.5 
477.15 63303.01 
60425.47 
528 
477.05 
18816.05 
17959.2
December-2022 
539 
460.1 63583.07 
59754.1 
539.1 
463.05 
18887.6 
17774.25
January-2023 
494.95 
442 
61343.96 
58699.2 
495.1 
442 
18251.95 
17405.55
February-2023 
518.7 
456.2 
61682.25 
58795.97 
519.4 
456.45 
18134.75 
17255.2
March-2023 
525.8 
452.15 60498.48 
57084.91 
526 
451.75 
17799.95 16828.35
BSE Sensex
High Price Low Price High Price
Low Price
Equity Share Price on 
NSE
High Price
Low Price
NSE Nifty
High Price
Low Price
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
H. 
Your Company does not have any GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any other convertible instruments.
I. 
Geographical Areas
Sr No. 
Name of the Geographical Area
 1 
Surat- Bharuch- Ankleshwar
 2 
Nadiad
 3 
Navsari
 4 
Rajkot 
 5 
Surendranagar
 6 
Jamnagar
 7 
Bhavnagar
 8 
Hazira
 9 
Kutch (West)
 10 
Valsad
 11 
Union Territory of Dadra & Nagar Haveli
 12 
Palghar District and Thane Rural
 13 
Amreli District
 14 
Dahej- Vagra Taluka 
 15 
Ahmedabad District (excluding area already authorized)
 16 
Dahod District
 17 
Anand District (excluding area already authorized)
 18 
Panchmahal District
 19 
Narmada (Rajpipla) District
 20 
Sirsa, Fatehabad and Mansa (Punjab) Districts
 21 
Ujjain (Except area already authorized) District, Dewas (Except area already authorized) District and 
 
 
Indore (Except area already authorized) District
 22 
Jhabua, Banswara, Ratlam and Dungarpur Districts
 23 
Ferozepur, Faridkot and Sri Muktsar Sahib Districts
 24 
Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur Districts
 25 
Jalore and Sirohi Districts
 26 
Amritsar District
 27 
Bhatinda District
J. 
Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors :
 
During the financial year 2022–23, the Statutory Auditors of the Company were paid fees for audit and providing other 
services as per below details:
41
Gujarat Gas Limited 
M/s Manubhai & Shah LLP 
18,84,750 
10,50,000 (For 3 quarters) 
10,000 
29,44,750
Total
(Rs.)
Name of the 
Company 
Feed paid
Name of Auditor
For Statutory 
Audit (Rs.)
 For Quarterly Limited
review (Rs. *3 qtr)
For providing 
other services 
(Rs.)
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
K. 
DISCLOSURE UNDER THE SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, PROHIBITION AND 
REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013
 
Your Company has always believed that appropriate standard should be maintained by the employees in their conduct and that 
there should be a safe, in discriminatory and harassment-free (including free of sexual harassment) work environment for 
every individual working in the Company. The Company has in place a Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at workplace 
as a part of its Human Resource Policy. It aims at prevention of harassment of employees and lays down the guidelines for 
reporting and prevention of sexual harassment. During the year ended 31st March, 2023, one complaint has been received 
pertaining to sexual harassment. The Company has constituted internal complaint committee and has also complied with all 
applicable provisions of the said Act.   
21. 
Details of Registrar & Share Transfer Agent
 
KFin Technologies Limited, Selenium Tower B, Plot No. 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally 
Mandal, Hyderabad - 500032. Toll free No.: 1800 309 4001.
 
Further details can be accessed at https://www.gujaratgas.com/investors/page-details-of-registrar-and-transfer-agent-rta/
22. Dematerialisation of Shares and Share Transfer System
 
About 99.65% of the equity shares of the Company are in electronic form. Shri Sanjeev Kumar, IAS, Managing Director of the 
Company is authorized to approve Share Transfer/Transmission/Deletion of Name/Change of Name etc. 
 
It is also informed to the Shareholders that Securities and Exchange Board of India had issued SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, vide Notification dated 8th June, 2018, where in it has 
amended Regulation 40 – Transfer or Transmission or Transposition of Securities and has mandated that transfer of securities 
would be carried out in dematerialized form only w.e.f December 5, 2018 and except in case of transmission or transposition of 
securities, requests for effecting transfer of securities shall not be processed unless the securities are held in the dematerialized 
form with a depository.
 
In order to implement the aforementioned Amendment in the Regulation and as advised by SEBI, the Company had sent letter 
under Registered/Speed post to the holders of physical certificates appraising them about the amendment and sensitise them 
about the impact of the regulation on the transfer of shares held by them in physical form w.e.f. December 5, 2018. 
 
The Company had also placed information on its website intimating the investors about the proposed change and has provided 
appropriate guidance on how to dematerialize their shares.
 
Subsequently, on 3rd December, 2018, SEBI extended the time limit and clarified that the aforesaid requirement of transfer of 
securities only in demat form will come into force from 1st April, 2019.
 
Further on 27th March, 2019, SEBI also clarified that decision does not prohibit the investor from holding the shares in physical 
form; investor has the option of holding shares in physical form even after 1st April, 2019. Any investor, who is desirous of 
transferring shares (which are held in physical form) after 1st April, 2019 can do so only after the shares are dematerialized. The 
transfer deed(s) once lodged prior to deadline and returned due to deficiency in the document may be re-lodged for transfer 
even after the deadline of 1st April, 2019. 
 
The above decision of SEBI is not applicable for demat of shares, transmission (i.e. transfer of title of shares by way of 
inheritance / succession) and transposition (i.e. re-arrangement / interchanging of the order of name of shareholders) cases.
 
Further SEBI vide Circular dated 7th September, 2020 has clarified that it has been decided to fix 31st March, 2021 as the cut-
off date for re-lodgement of transfer deeds. Further, the shares that are re-lodged for transfer (including those request that are 
pending with the listed Company / RTA, as on date) shall henceforth be issued only in demat mode.
 
It is also informed that Company has requested to physical shareholders vide advertisement dated 6th June, 2022 and vide 
letters dated 3rd January, 2023 and 16th May, 2023 to opt for dematerialisation of shares and also informed benefits of 
holding shares in demat mode along with amendments in Regulation 40 of SEBI (LODR) 2015.  Further as required by SEBI 
Circular dated 30/05/2022, the Company has also informed shareholders vide sms and email about details of availability of 
Arbitration Mechanism available against Company/RTA in Stock Exchanges. Further as required by SEBI Circulars dated 3rd 
November, 2021 and 16th March 2023, Company has intimated physical shareholders to update KYC vide letters dated 
06/06/2022, 27/01/2022 and 13/04/2023.
42
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
24. Address of Correspondence
 
Gujarat Gas Limited, 2, Shantisadan Society, Nr. Parimal Garden, Ellis Bridge, Ahmedabad - 380006, India. Telephone 
Numbers: +91-79- 26462980, +91-79-26460095, Fax: +91-79- 26466249.
25.  Details of Credit Rating for Bank loan facilities:
23. Summary of Shareholding as on 31/03/2023
26.  Non-Mandatory requirements of regulation 27 (1) & Part E of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations:
 
i) The Company has a Non–Executive Chairman.
 
ii) The quarterly / half yearly results are not sent to the shareholders. However, the same are published in the newspapers and 
are also posted on the Company’s website.
 
iii) The internal auditors report to the Audit Committee.
27. 
Demat Suspense Account
 
The Company has an operative suspense demat account, however as on 31st March, 2023 there are no equity shares in the 
said demat account.
 Rating Agency 
Instrument Type 
Rating Type 
    Rating/Outlook 
Date of rating 
 
 
 
 
As on 31-Mar-2023 
document
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Raj Kumar, IAS
Chairman
Date: 18th July, 2023 
Place: Gandhinagar
43
CRISIL Ratings 
Limited
CARE Ratings 
Limited
India Ratings and 
Research Pvt Ltd
Bank Loan Facilities
Bank Facilities
Bank Loans
Commercial paper
Long-term
Long-term/ 
Short-term
Long-term/ 
Short-term
Short-term
 CRISIL AAA/Stable (Upgraded from 
‘CRISIL AA+/Positive’ on 27-12-2022)
CARE AA +/ Positive / CARE A1+ 
(Reaffirmed on 21-09-2022)
IND AA +/ Positive / IND A1+ 
(Reaffirmed on 27-04-2022)  
IND A1+ (Reaffirmed on 27-04-2022)
27/12/2022
21/09/2022
27/04/2022
27/04/2022
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 
Category 
No. of Holders 
Total Shares 
% to Equity
 
PHYSICAL 
540 
24,27,500 
0.352634
 
N S D L 
60,392 
62,41,35,904 
90.666016
 
C D S L 
1,22,783 
6,18,26,721 
8.981349
 
Total 
1,83,715 
68,83,90,125 
100.00
Summary of Shareholding As on 31/03/2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
ANNEXURE – 2
ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR ACTIVITIES
1. 
A brief outline of the Company’s CSR policy, including overview of projects or programs proposed to be undertaken 
and a reference to the web-link to the CSR policy and projects or programs:
 
The Company has framed a CSR Policy in compliance with the provisions of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
same is placed on the website of the Company and the web link for the same is as under:  
CSR Policy 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/resources/downloads/corporate-social-
responsibility-policy-wef-1st-june-2021.pdf
CSR projects approved by the board 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/projects-report-on-csr-activities/
Composition of CSR Committee 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/resources/downloads/composition-of-
committees-of-bod-of-ggl.pdf
CSR Policy 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/resources/downloads/corporate-social-
responsibility-policy-wef-1st-june-2021.pdf
CSR projects approved by the board 
https://www.gujaratgas.com/projects-report-on-csr-activities/
 
The thrust areas outlined in the company’s CSR policy are Community development, promoting education, creating awareness 
for conservation of energy, environment sustainability, healthcare etc.
 
The Board of Directors on the recommendation of CSR Committee has approved the CSR contribution of providing financial and 
other assistance for specific activities/projects to various Trusts/Implementing Partners and some amount was spent directly.
2. 
Composition of CSR Committee:
 
 Any two Directors shall form the Quorum of the Committee.
3. 
Provide web-link where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the Board are 
disclosed on the website of the Company: 
 
The Company has framed a CSR Policy in compliance with the provisions of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
same is placed on the website of the Company and the web link for the same is as under:  
4.  Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance of 
Sub-Rule (3) of Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 if applicable – 
 
Impact Assessment of three CSR projects was undertaken: 1) Dhavantri Covid Hospital 2) Supply and installation of 
PSA Oxygen plants at various Government Hospitals in Gujarat 3) Gas supply to crematoriums, executive summary is 
attached at Annexure-2-A. The weblink to access impact assessment report is https://www.gujaratgas.com/projects-report-
on-csr-activities/
5. 
(a) Average Net Profit of the Company as per Section 135(5):
 
 
Average Net Profit of the Company for last three financial years: INR 1,551.64 Crores
 
(b) Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5): INR 31,03,27,555/- 
 
(c) Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or Programs or Activities of the previous financial years: NIL
 
(d) Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: NIL
 
(e) Total CSR Obligation for the Financial Year [5b-5c-5d]: INR 31,03,27,555/-
44
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Sr.No.
Name of Director
Designation/Nature 
of Directorship
 
1 
Mr. Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) 
Chairman 
4 
4
 
2 
Smt. Mona Khandhar, IAS 
Member 
NA 
NA
 
3 
Smt. Mamta Verma, IAS 
Member 
NA 
NA
 
4 
Shri Bhadresh Mehta 
Member 
4 
4
 
5 
Shri Milind Torawane, IAS 
Member 
3 
3
No of meeting of CSR 
Committee held during 
the year
No. of meeting of CSR 
Committee attended 
during the year
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
6. 
(a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing and other than Ongoing Project):
 
 
INR.31,31,29,591/- (INR 11,95,35,000/- for ongoing projects and INR 19,35,94,591/- for other than ongoing projects)
 
(b) Amount Spent in Administrative Overhead: NIL
 
(c) Amount spent on Impact assessment, if applicable:  NIL
 
(d) Total amount spent for the financial year [6a+6b+6c]:  INR.31,31,29,591/-
 
(e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
7. 
Details of Unspent CSR Amount for the preceding three financial years:
 
(f) Excess amount for set off, if any: 
45
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Total Amount 
spent for the 
financial year
 (in Rs.)
Amount
Amount Unspent (in Rs.)
Total amount transferred to unspent 
CSR Account as per section 135(6)
Date of Transfer
Name of fund
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
th
 19,35,94,591/- 
11,45,00,000/- 
28  April 2023 
Not Applicable  
Not Applicable 
Not Applicable
th
 
 
50,35,000/- 
29  April 2022
 
 
11,95,35,000/-
Amount
Date of Transfer
Sr.No.
Sr.No.
1
Particulars
 
(i) 
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5) 
Rs.31,03,27,555/- 
 (ii) 
Total amount spent for the financial year 
Rs.31,31,29,591/-
 (iii) 
Excess amount spent for the financial year[(ii)-(i)] 
 Rs. 28,02,036/-
 (iv) 
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programs or activities of the previous  
Nil
 
 
financial year, if any
 (v) 
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)] 
Rs. 28,02,036/-
 
1 
2019-2020 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
 
2 
2020-2021 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
 
3 
2021- 2022 
4,40,15,000/- 4,40,15,000/- 
- 
- 
- 4,40,15,000/- 
-
 
 
TOTAL 
4,40,15,000/- 4,40,15,000/- 
- 
- 
- 4,40,15,000/- 
-
Amount (in Rs.)
8
Deficit, if any
7
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial year
(in Rs.)
6
Amount 
transferred to 
Fund specified 
under Schedule 
VII as per second 
proviso to Section 
135(5), if any
Amount 
(in Rs.)
Date of 
transfer
5
Amount
spent in the 
Financial
Year
(in Rs.)
4
Balance 
Amount in 
unspent CSR 
Account under 
Section 
135(6)
 (in Rs.)
3
Amount 
transferred
to Unspent 
CSR Account 
under Section 
135(6)
 (in Rs.)
2
Preceding
Financial
Year.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
8. 
Whether any capital assets have been created or captured or acquired through CSR amount spent in the financial year:
 
Yes                              No         
 
If Yes, enter the number of Capital Assets created/ acquired       NA
 
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount 
spent in the Financial Year:
9. 
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two percent of the net profit as per section 135(5):    
 
Not applicable as the company has transferred Rs. 11,95,35,000/- to unspent CSR Account as per section 135(6) for ongoing 
projects.
46
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Sr.No.
(1)
Milind Torawane, IAS
(Managing Director)
Date: 2nd June, 2023
Place: Gandhinagar
Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)
(Chairman, CSR Committee)
Details of entity/ Authority/ 
beneficiary of 
the registered owner
(6)
Amount of 
CSR spent
Name
CSR Registration 
Number, if any
Not Applicable 
Registered 
Address
(5)
Date of 
Creation
(4)
(3)
Pin code of 
the property 
or assets
(2)
Short Particulars  of the 
property to asset(s) 
[including complete address 
and location of the property]
√
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
47
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
ANNEXURE-2-A
Executive Summary- Dhanvantari Covid Hospital (DCH) - A GoG - DRDO-Gujarat University Initiative
The Dhanvantari COVID Care Hospital, started on 24th April 2021 was established with robust speed and was set up in record span 
of 10 days. It was located at the Gujarat University Convention and Exhibition Centre, Ahmedabad. It was set up by the Government of 
Gujarat in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO), through the Gujarat University 
Consultancy Foundation (GUCF) The Dhanvantari COVID Hospital (DCH) aimed to alleviate the additional stress on the healthcare 
infrastructure of the state due to the COVID -9 pandemic. 
It was equipped with a capacity of more than 900 beds, had all necessary crucial medical infrastructure facilities including intensive 
and critical care for COVID patients. All beds were equipped with 100 percent oxygen supply and 150 of these beds were ICU beds 
with ventilators. More than 200 medical and paramedical staff including 50 doctors and Duty Medical Officers was deployed in the 
hospital. The hospital was linked with VS Hospital, Ahmedabad, as its base. The hospital functioned as a Referral Hospital, with no OPD, 
in order to provide efficient and dedicated critical care to the COVID patients.
Some of the key findings from the study include:
• 
Majority of the respondents who were treated at Dhanvantari hospital belonged to informal occupations, therefore it is evident 
that it provided services to the neediest.
• 
Out of total 50 patients surveyed, 45 i.e., 90 % patients were admitted from Ahmedabad city, which establishes that the 
decision to establish Dhanvantari Hospital in Ahmedabad was very much relevant.
• 
About 84% (42 nos.) patients interviewed faced no problem at point of admission in the hospital and said that the procedure 
was ‘easy’ for them. 12 % (6 nos.) of them felt that the procedure was ‘not easy’.
• 
72% (36 nos.) respondents were satisfied and mentioned that the basic facilities like food, sanitation etc. were good at the hospital.
• 
About 86% (43 nos.) patients did not face any shortage in oxygen supply.
• 
In case of medicines supply, 42 patients (84%) had no problem in procuring them on time. All other medical facilities were also 
supplied systematically according to 43 (86%) patients.
• 
40 patients (80%) out of 50 were satisfied and happy to receive the medical services and treatment in respect to their ailments. 
8 (16%) patients were not satisfied with the medical and treatment services. 
• 
Crucial addition of highly trained medical manpower boosted the functioning of the hospital which was witnessing long queues 
of patients.
• 
37 out of 50 patients were constantly connected with their family through their own mobile.
• 
41 patients out of 50 mentioned that they would recommend this hospital in the future.
All together, setting up of an emergency facility like Dhanvantari has been a learning experience for all stakeholders. It has indeed 
helped hundreds of patients with free of cost on-time health services. 
Executive Summary- Supply, Installation and Commissioning of PSA Oxygen Plants in Government Hospitals at various 
locations in Gujarat
During COVID-19 crisis, shortage of oxygen in the second wave brought out the need for improved management of oxygen 
generation and supply. In that context, Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants have emerged as a viable option and widely 
used as a primary source of medical oxygen across hospitals in India. Moreover, to limit the dependency on refilling oxygen cylinders 
and procuring liquid oxygen from vendors, the Government of India had recommended that PSA plants should be used as an 
alternative and sustainable source of oxygen. 
In Gujarat, the government explored and identified Gujarat Gas Limited (GGL) as one of the agencies to address the scarcity of 
medical oxygen. GGL supported in setting up of 9 PSA oxygen plants at various districts (6 in Rajkot, 2 in Morbi and 1 in Aravalli) in the 
Gujarat Medical and Education Research Society (GMERS) operated Government Hospitals of Gujarat. The initiative was critical as it 
aimed to meet the increasing demand of oxygen and for future preparedness wherein GGL contributed Rs. 300 lakhs. GGL has 
supported to the project ‘Supply, Installation and Commissioning of PSA Oxygen Plants in Government Hospitals at various locations 
in Gujarat” through the implementation partner Gujarat Corporate Social Responsibility Agency (GCSRA). The main outcomes of the 
intervention were as follows:
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
48
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
• 
Supplied, installed and commissioned nine PSA oxygen plants during COVID 19
• 
Provided oxygen for patients at bed level in each location
• 
Strengthened healthcare services of the GMERS managed Government hospitals of the State especially for Oxygen 
requirement
• 
Ensured that each of these hospitals has a captive oxygen generation facility
Gujarat Energy Research and Management Institute (GERMI) was awarded work order by GGL as an independent consultant for the 
Social Impact Assessment Study to understand the impact of ‘Supply, Installation and Commissioning of PSA Plants for GMERS 
Operated Government Hospitals’. The study included; secondary research, preparation of research tools, training of GERMI field staff, 
pre-testing of research tools, data entry, analysis and development of report. 
Some of the key findings from the study include:
• 
All together, the eight hospitals visited have 2390 beds. And out of this 2295 (96.02%) are connected with oxygen supply.
• 
As far as the cost is concerned, all of them agreed that the plant was installed free of cost after the hospital authorities had 
constructed the concrete platform through its civil works department as per the specification from the respective vendor. 
• 
Apart from their original capacity, 5 Sub District Hospitals were able to manage and accommodate beds for COVID patients.
• 
When probed about the benefits of the PSA plant, only 4 Hospitals mentioned that it can be life-saving, 1 (one) agreed that it can 
be time saving and the other said it can be cost effective. 
• 
At the same time, all the hospitals responded that the installation of PSA oxygen plants have incurred no expenses for them and 
all the expenses to set up the system has been borne by GGL.
• 
The study also has shown that in all the hospitals visited, the PSA plants were installed/or it became functional after the second 
wave subsided. However, the hospitals have the plants now in place, which are functional and could address any emergencies in 
the future.
• 
The hospital’s technical staff has received training for the operations and maintenance of the PSA plant. About 40 people have 
received training on operation and maintenance – and as a part of this they perform basic works like switching the plant on/off or 
check the purity of oxygen. All of them responded that the ‘Do’s and Don’ts Guidelines’ shared with them during the training has 
been helpful. 
• 
3 Sub District Hospitals have proper designated space for oxygen cylinders in their respective hospitals. They have centralised 
system in place. While others reported that they keep the oxygen cylinders in either open lobby, or in emergency ward or in 
female ward. 
GGL has been in the forefront along with the government and other entities during the COVID battle when the nation witnessed 
unprecedented flow of COVID patients to hospitals. The timely support of GGL has helped the state to have social assets, which will 
always be at the service of people.
Executive Summary- Supply of Gas to the Crematoriums during 2021-2022.
COVID-19 has been a traumatizing experience for the humankind. It challenged us in all aspects of life, health, professions, services, 
commercial activities and so on. In response to the pandemic, the governments and healthcare systems have been forced to mobilize 
quickly, often with limited resources and in the face of rapidly changing circumstances. Medical supplies, including personal protective 
equipment (PPE), have been in short supply, making it difficult for healthcare workers to protect themselves and care for patients. The 
pandemic has also led to economic disruptions, with many businesses forced to close or reduce operations, resulting in job losses and 
financial difficulties for millions of people. Supply chains were disrupted, leading to shortages of essential goods and services, 
including food, medicine, and other basic necessities.
In the face of this crisis, Gujarat Gas Limited (GGL) through its’ CSR initiative of ‘Supply of gas to the crematoriums’ in Gujarat, which 
was the need of the hour. Gas supply was done to 47 crematoriums by GGL, which has made an impact on many lives, especially 
during the most critical phase of the year 2021-2022. To understand the social impact of this intervention, GGL assigned a study to 
Gujarat Energy Research and Management Institute (GERMI), Gandhinagar. Some of the significant aspects, which have emerged 
from the study, indicate that the initiative has been positively impactful for the citizens. Especially it has been beneficial to the people 
in terms of ‘finding an environment friendly option’ of cremating their loved ones, when the existing services were not able to fulfil the 
rising demand of the time. 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
49
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Over 14 crematoriums (30%) with Gas supply from GGL and 20 family members were interviewed using qualitative research tools. 
The analysis of data has helped in deriving at following research findings:
• 
11 (78.57%) out of 14 crematoriums reported that the infrastructure was able to manage the load during the peak of 
COVID wave.
• 
All 14 caretakers of the crematoriums i.e. 100% confirmed that there was continuous and uninterrupted gas supply for 
cremation, which resulted in quick and easy cremation process.
• 
13 out of 14 operators i.e. (92.85%) of gas kiln received training for operation and management of gas kiln through various 
agencies. 
• 
All the crematorium caretakers knew that the gas supply is from GGL.
• 
Respondents (crematorium caretakers) have shared that ‘use of gas for cremation has several advantages’, such as; it takes less 
time in cremation, reduced chances of infection or spread, saves environment and creates less pollution. Additionally, there have 
been responses that ‘use of gas’ helps in saving electricity too.
• 
Out of 20 family members interviewed, 14 (70%) have said that ‘using gas for cremation’ was a better option especially in terms 
of ‘saving environment’.
• 
Family members have shared that cremation through gas is preferred as it ‘takes less time’, ‘environment friendly’, ‘less chances 
of infection spread’, ‘people have less time to attend funerals’, ‘wood is expensive’ and ‘gas is an environment friendly option for 
the new era’. 
• 
The project has potential to change the belief system of community through providing cost effectiveness as well as 
environmental impact i.e. though prima facie it may seem during the present times that the cost of gas and wood used for 
cremation to be similar, but in long run if we consider the expected role of trees in nurturing life – then the cost of gas seems 
irrelevant. 
• 
The most important impact the project have had is that it gave an opportunity for the family members to do the last ritual of their 
loved ones in an appropriate way without worrying about lack of facilities (general notion that was created among the 
population during Covid-19). 
• 
Though not directly related to the ‘gas supply’, the crematorium workers have faced ‘social isolation’ from family and neighbours 
– as about seven respondents (50%) have expressed facing isolation because of the nature of their work during the COVID 
times. Similarly, the caretakers have had no facilities or access to mental health aspects, therefore six respondents (caretakers) 
(42.85%) have said that they have been able to ‘manage own stress’ and seven (50%) have shared that they were unable to 
manage the stress but had no option. 
• 
At the face of pandemic, common facilities were being provided by the government and used by people from all social strata – 
without any prejudice. 
The project ‘Supply of gas to the crematoriums’ has indeed made an impact in the lives of many people. The study clearly highlights 
that it has served people and has aided the government at a critical phase of pandemic. The CSR initiative of GGL has further 
facilitated the crematoriums, which were working over-time with less or no additional options.  
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
ANNEXURE - 3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members of
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(CIN: L40200GJ2012SGC069118)
Gujarat Gas CNG Station, 
Sector 5/C, Gandhinagar - 382006 (Gujarat) 
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate 
practices by GUJARAT GAS LIMITED (hereinafter called the "Company"). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that 
provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon. 
Based on our verification of the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company 
and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
secretarial audit, We hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial year ended on 
31st March, 2023 complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes 
and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter: 
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for the 
financial year ended on 31st March, 2023 according to the provisions of: 
I. 
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the Rules made thereunder;
II. 
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the Rules made thereunder;
III. 
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
IV. 
The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;
V. 
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) to 
the extent applicable to the Company:
 
a) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
 
b) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
 
c) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
 
d) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equities) Regulations, 2021;
 
e) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;
 
f) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding 
the Companies Act and dealing with client;
 
g) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; and
 
h) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
 
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
I. 
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India;
II. 
The SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI-LODR);
 
We hereby report that during the period under review, the Company has complied with the applicable provisions of the Act, 
Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards etc. mentioned above. 
50
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
VI. 
We further report that having regard to the compliance system prevailing in the Company and on examination of the relevant 
documents and records in pursuance thereof, on test-check basis, the Company has complied with the following laws applicable 
specifically to the Company:
 
a) 
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006
 
b) 
The Petroleum Act, 1934
 
c) 
The Explosives Act, 1884
 
d) 
The Inflammable Substances Act, 1952
We further report that:
a) 
The Board of Directors of the Company was duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period 
under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
b) 
Adequate notice was given to all Directors to schedule the Board Meetings at least seven days in advance. Agenda and detailed 
notes on agenda were also sent to all the Directors and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
c) 
Majority decisions were carried through while the dissenting members’ views, if any were captured and recorded as part of the 
minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the 
Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period, there are no material events/actions taken place which have major bearing on the 
affairs of the Company in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards etc.
 
For, DHAWAL CHAVDA & ASSOCIATES
 
Practicing Company Secretaries
 
FRN: S2015GJ327000
 
PR Certificate No.: 1853/2022
 
DHAWAL CHAVDA
 
Proprietor
Place: Ahmedabad 
ACS No. 23795, C P No.: 8689
th
Date:  10  May, 2023 
UDIN: A023795E000255213
Note: This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and form an integral part of this Report. 
51
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
ANNEXURE - A
To,
The Members of
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(CIN: L40200GJ2012SGC069118)
Gujarat Gas CNG Station, 
Sector 5/C, Gandhinagar - 382006 (Gujarat) 
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
1. 
Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the Management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these Secretarial records based on our audit.
2. 
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
Secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3. 
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts and Cost records of the 
Company.
4. 
We have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of events, 
secretarial records and other factual position which cannot be otherwise verified etc. wherever required or necessary.
5. 
The compliance of the provision of corporate laws and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
Management. Our examination was limited to the verification of the same on test basis.
6. 
The Secretarial audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the company.
7. 
The Secretarial audit was conducted in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India and in a manner which evolved such examinations and verifications as considered necessary and adequate for the said 
purpose.
52
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 
For, DHAWAL CHAVDA & ASSOCIATES
 
Practicing Company Secretaries
 
FRN: S2015GJ327000
 
PR Certificate No.: 1853/2022
 
DHAWAL CHAVDA
 
Proprietor
Place: Ahmedabad 
ACS No. 23795, C P No.: 8689
th
Date:  10  May, 2023 
UDIN: A023795E000255213
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
ANNEXURE – 4
FORM No. AOC-2
(Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the company with related parties referred to in sub-
section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third proviso thereto 
1. 
 Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis :
Name of the 
Related Party & 
Nature of 
Relationship
Nature of 
Contracts/
Arrangements/
transactions
Duration of 
Contracts/
Arrangements/
Transactions
Salient terms 
of  Contracts/
Arrangements/
Transactions 
including value, 
if any
Justification for 
entering into 
such 
Contracts/
Arrangements/
Transactions
Date of 
Approval by 
the Board
Amount paid as 
advances, if any
Date of 
passing 
Special 
Resolution
-------------------N.A.--------------------
2.  
Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis for the FY.2022-23: 
Name of the Related Party & 
Nature of Relationship
Gujarat State Petroleum  
Purchase of  
Regular 
Rs.11,299.90 Crores  # 
 
N A
Corporation Limited – GSPC   
Natural Gas 
Ultimate Holding Company 
(W.e.f.,20th  October,2022) 
 
 
 
08/02/2022
Intermediate Holding Company   
 
 
and
(Upto 19th October, 2022 
 
 
 
03/08/2022
Gujarat State Financial  
Deposit -  
Regular 
Rs. 6982.50 Crores # 
 
NA
 Services Limited – GSFS  
Placed/ 
Associate of Ultimate Holding  
Renewed
Company  
Deposit - 
Regular 
Rs. 6233.00 Crores # 
 
NA 
(Upto 19th October, 2022) 
Withdrawn / 
 
 
Redeemed
# Definition of Material Related Party Transactions (as disclosed in Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and dealing 
with Related Party Transactions): "Material Related Party Transaction” In accordance with Regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations, 
w.e.f. 01/04/2022 a transaction with a related party shall be considered material, if the transaction(s) to be entered into individually 
or taken together with previous transactions during a financial year, exceeds rupees one thousand crore or ten per cent of the annual 
consolidated turnover of the Company as per the last audited financial statements of the Company, whichever is lower or such other 
limit as may be specified in the applicable Regulation as amended from time to time.
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
 
 Raj Kumar, IAS
Chairman
Place:  Gandhinagar
Date: 18th July, 2023
53
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Nature of 
Contracts / 
Arrangements / 
transactions
Duration of 
Contracts / 
Arrangements 
/ Transactions
Salient terms of  
Contracts /Arrangements 
/ Transactions including 
value, if any
Date of 
Approval by the 
Board, if any
Amount paid 
as advances, 
if any
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
ANNEXURE-5
AOC-1
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries/associate 
companies/joint ventures (Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013)
Part "A": Subsidiaries
Not Applicable
Part "B": Associates
Name of Associates 
Guj Info Petro Limited
1. Latest audited Balance Sheet Date 
  
31/03/2023
2. Shares of Associate held by the company on the year end (in numbers) 
  
                                                        25,000 
 
Amount of Investment in Associate 
  
                                                            0.03 
 
Extent of Holding % 
  
49.94%
3. Description of how there is significant influence 
  
Through voting power
4. Reason why the associate is not consolidated 
  
NA
5. Networth attributable to Shareholding as per latest audited Balance Sheet 
  As per Ind-AS-28 equity method is followed
6. Profit / (Loss) for the year 
  
 
 
I. Considered in Consolidation 
  
                                                            2.70 
 
ii. Not Considered in Consolidation 
  
                                                                -
(Rs in Crores)
54
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of Gujarat Gas Limited
Raj Kumar, IAS    
Milind Torawane, IAS 
Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) 
Chairman          
Managing Director  
Director 
DIN - 00294527  
DIN - 03632394 
DIN- 00023872 
 
Nitesh Bhandari        
Sandeep Dave
 
Chief Financial Officer  
Company Secretary 
Place:  Gandhinagar
th
Date: 10  May, 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
ANNEXURE-6
(A) Conservation of Energy-
 
(I) 
The steps taken or impact on conservation of energy;
 
 
• 
Usage of LED light fixtures instead of CFL/MH type in Street lighting, Offices & COCO CNG Stations for all new 
installations & replacements
 
 
• 
Outdoor lighting system for COCO CNG station with high mast lighting, which reduced installation of light 
poles/fixtures.
 
 
• 
Optimise the power requirement and reduced contract demand at few CNG stations
 
 
• 
By use of LNG/LCNG as a product which help to reduce the electrical Power consumption compared to use of variable 
inlet CNG Compressor. Differential reduced power consumption is ~0.12 Kwh/Kg, which results in energy saving of 
~2000 Kwh/Day considering sale of 16000 Kg/Day at operating LNG/LCNG Stations.
 
 
• 
With two (2) operational LCNG stations, the CNG transport through vehicle is reduced 3000 km/day at Thane GA 
which helps to reduce the number of trips of MCV and reduce the fuel consumption accordingly.
 
 
• 
Instead of steel cascade cylinder (3000/4500WLC capacity), GGL is using light weight composite cylinder 
(8800WLC – 110 nos., 6600WLC – 175 nos.) during transport for higher volume of gas which will help to reduce the 
number of MCV trips by half and reduce the fuel consumption accordingly.
 
(ii) The steps taken by the company for utilizing alternate sources of energy;
 
 
• 
Maximised usage of VRF (Variable refrigerant flow) & VRV (Variable refrigerant Variant) & Invertor based AC systems 
instead of conventional DX (direct expansion) type for new offices
 
 
• 
Gas engine driven compressors at CNG stations- 15 nos.
 
 
• 
GGL through various outsourced agencies are running more than 700 CNG Mobile Cascade Vehicle (MCV) for 
transporting CNG from Mother CNG stations to Daughter / Daughter booster CNG stations. These MCVs are now 
being run on CNG as fuel instead of Diesel.
 
(iii) The capital investment on energy conservation equipment’s- Nil
(B) Technology Absorption-
 
(i) 
the efforts made towards technology absorption:
 
(ii) the benefits derived like product improvement, cost reduction, product development or import substitution: 
 
 
1.0 Set up EV Charging Facility at Narmada GA: Government of India has undertaken multiple initiatives to promote 
manufacturing and adoption of electrical vehicles in India. With support of the Government, Electrical vehicles have 
started penetrating in the Indian Market. However, availability of adequate charging infrastructure is one of the key 
requirements for accelerated adoption of electrical vehicles in India. As a part of Pilot Project and to promote use of 
electric vehicles, GGL has setup an electrical charging facilities at their operating COCO CNG Station at Kevadia 
location (near to Statue of Unity) in Narmada GA.  The Installed charger having capacity of 50 KW fast Charging 
facility. The charger also supports AC and DC Fast Charging facility. 
 
 
2.0 Hydrogen Blending with Natural Gas for CGD: Hydrogen is not a greenhouse gas (GHG), nor does it produce GHGs 
when burned, making it a potential substitute for reducing the carbon intensity or pollution of some energy or fuel 
applications. Hydrogen is relevant to GGL through its use as a fuel when blended with natural gas.
 
 
 
GGL & NTPC had signed an agreement and now commissioned the pilot project with 5% H2 blending in Natural Gas 
after due approval from regulator. NTPC produces and supplies the required green Hydrogen which is blended with 
Natural Gas through Blending skid and GGL distributes this blended gas at the NTPC townships in Kawas, Hazira. GGL 
& NTPC teams had carried out detailed testing by setting up testing riser to ensure homogeneity of blended mixture. 
Further GGL and NTPC will be presenting proposal to regulator of increasing H2 concentration in blended gas as per 
original plan.
 
 
3.0 Vehicle Congestion Management & Automated Cylinder verification at CNG Stations: GGL has availed of 
services of a third party for congestion monitoring and reporting system along with Queue management for CNG 
stations as a pilot project. Existing CCTV infrastructure of the Company has been used at CNG stations to aggregate 
vehicles, automatically detect queues, using state-of-the-art Computer Vision algorithms and Machine Learning for 
pattern detection.
55
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
56
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 
 
 
We carried out this pilot project at 04 Nos. of COCO CNG stations. The pilot project covered congestion monitoring 
and queue management at CNG station to report Peak hours, Non-peak hours, Hourly trends, maximum and average 
total vehicles served, average serve time etc. They have also come up with other features like Automatic Hydrotest 
validity verification of CNG cylinders for vehicles coming at GGL CNG stations which would prevent manual 
intervention of verification of hydrotest validity of CNG cylinders by the filler by matching the 4-wheeler vehicle ID 
(obtained after processing the camera feed) with the VAHAN and PESO details to ascertain the compliance of the 
vehicle’s onboard cylinder.
 
 
4.0 Injection of Bio-Gas into Natural Gas Pipeline: M/s Goverdhannathji Energies LLP, Located at Village Pij, Nadiad 
Gujarat, is a fully operational BioGas Bottling / plant with total plant capacity of 14000 m3/day and 7000 KG CBG 
Production per day. Along with their consultant-CEID (Centre for Entrepreneurship and Industries Development), 
M/s. Goverdhannathji Energies LLP approached GGL for use of Bio Gas into Natural gas pipeline network which is 
produced as a side product in the waste transformation process. 
 
 
 
Their proposal was to utilize gas which is compressed at high pressure to be stored in stationary cascades or for 
injection directly in CGD’s MDPE network. Equipment installed for transforming biogas to Natural gas are Gas 
purification system, Gas Dryer Unit, Gas Compressor, Gas Analyzer, Odorization unit and Metering / regulating skid. 
 
 
 
Bio gas is currently being injected in the MDPE pipeline network downstream of Dabhan DRS, Nadiad - Gujarat by M/s. 
Goverdhannathji Energies LLP. Bio gas offtakes volume of around 500 to 1000 SCMD at a delivery pressure of 4 bar. 
Facilities for delivery of gas upstream to the delivery points is constructed, operated and maintained by the Bio gas 
producer. Facilities downstream of the delivery point is constructed, operated and maintained by the Gujarat Gas 
Limited. 
 
 
 
GGL has future plans to inject Bio-gas in existing Natural Gas pipeline network at two locations in Hoshiarpur-
Gurdaspur GA & two locations in Ankleshwar, Bharuch GA for supply to all category of customers. GGL has made 
agreements with Bio-gas manufacturers to supply Bio-gas to GGL at desired pressure for blending with Natural Gas. 
Bio-gas blended with Natural Gas has more than 95% of Methane component and hence has no amount of heavier 
hydrocarbons {Ethane (C2H6)/Propane (C3H8)/Butane (C4H10)/Pentane (C5H12) etc.} thereby reducing carbon 
component as compared to Natural Gas. Also since Bio Gas is produced as a side product in the agricultural waste 
(crop-residue, Parali) transformation process developed indigenously, this contributes to waste management, air 
pollution control caused due to burning of such crop residue and also reduces country’s dependency on imported fuel.
 
 
5.0 Setting up Virtual Pipeline Network: In absence of natural gas source point in proximity of the area. Natural Gas is 
transported using Mobile Cascade vehicle to remote locations with Virtual pipeline facility of two models:
 
 
 
o 
Line pack model: MCV after catering to Daughter booster CNG Station, residual gas of MCV is tops-up / feds 
steel pipeline laid to act as storage. This line pack at its downstream is connected to DRS which is used to reduce 
the 40 bar pressure to medium 4 bar pressure which is supplied to customer through PE pipeline – 4 nos. with 
one at Thane, two at Punjab & one at Madhya Pradesh
 
 
 
o 
DCS model: Fully filled MCV with CNG pressure (240 bar) is reduced to medium pressure 4 bar through use of 
decompression skid with heater system for further supply to customer connections.
 
 
6.0 Remote operation of CNG compressors: Remotely operated CNG compressor will be operated by operator from 
remote control room. Introduction of this technology has helped to improve monitoring & control of overall CNG 
compressor operation and also reduced operation cost. Remote operation of CNG Compressor is already been 
implemented in more than 70 new CNG stations where electric driven compressor are installed.
 
 
7.0 GPRS / IOT based communication for Remote monitoring & meter reading data collection: Majority of GGL 
sites today connects remotely over GSM network and meter reading data, gas distribution network related process 
parameters, movement of MCVs across different locations of GGL and many more such applications utilize legacy 
GSM dialling based communication for data gathering, processing and varied purposes. Over the period of time more 
communication technologies have evolved and so does the hardware capability which supports these latest 
communication types. These advanced communication technologies not only offer fast time to connect sites to the 
control room, the speed of data transfer has also multiplied many folds. To keep pace with these technology 
advancements, GPRS / IOT based communication option is currently under testing phase and required capability in 
gas meters and other allied instrumentation devices is being incorporated which will help GGL in achieving better 
monitoring and control of overall operations across different customers categories.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
57
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 
 
8.0 GGL part in Government technological initiatives such as Gati Shakti: Gati Shakti - National Master Plan for 
Multi-modal Connectivity, essentially a digital platform to bring 16 Ministries including Railways and Roadways 
together for integrated planning and coordinated implementation of infrastructure connectivity projects. GGL has 
already associated with Energy & Petrochemicals Department (EPD) and Bhaskaracharya National Institute for Space 
Applications and Geo-informatics (BISAG) for collating all the relevant infrastructure data (Natural gas Pipeline – 
Transmission, Distribution, City Gas Station (CGS), CNG stations) for uploading in the centralized Gati-Shakti portal 
for seamless access and permission approval process for different infrastructure related projects/activities through 
single window. All GGL related data & information has been uploaded successfully and are now available for all Gati 
Shakti portal users.
 
 
9.0 GGL adoption of Call Before You Dig app: Department of Telecommunications (DoT), Government of India has 
developed a Mobile Application named “Call Before U Dig”, which will provide interface for the digging agency to 
enquire/to know about the existing underground assets and to alert/inform owners of existing utility assets about 
upcoming digging activity.
 
 
 
Various agencies do digging activity to lay their infrastructure during which the diggers often damage already existing 
infrastructure of other agencies resulting in Hazardous scenario, interruption of services & huge economic losses. To 
address the issue this app can provide an interface to digging agencies to enquire about the availability of existing 
underground utility assets and to inform utility asset owners about proposed digging activities, so that both can 
coordinate to safeguard existing underlying utility assets like Gas Pipelines, Optical Fibre Cables, Water Pipelines, 
Electric Cables, etc. from third party damages.
 
 
 
Single point of Contact is identified from each GA, who on daily basis coordinate for digging request raised by third 
party utilities or excavators. Also all project and O&M contractors have been instructed to download the application 
and use it to generate digging request for effective coordination with other utilities and to protect damage of asset. 
The mandatory requirement of generating digging request are also being incorporated in all upcoming project 
contracts. 
 
(iii) in case of imported technology (imported during the last three years reckoned from the beginning of the financial year)- Nil
 
 
(a) the details of technology imported;
 
 
(b) the year of import;
 
 
(c) whether the technology been fully absorbed;
 
 
(d) if not fully absorbed, areas where absorption has not taken place, and the reasons thereof; and
 
(iv) the expenditure incurred on Research and Development. Nil
(C) Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo-
 
The Company has incurred expenditure in Foreign Exchange to the extent of Rs. Nil during FY 2022-23 (Previous year FY 2021-
22 Rs. 0.62 Crores) and the Foreign Exchange Earnings during FY 2022-23 were Rs. NIL (Previous year FY 2021-22 Rs. NIL).
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
ANNEXURE-7
Managing Director’s Statement On ESG
Greetings shareholders, it is an honor for me to write to you and share Gujarat Gas Limited's (GGL) performance in FY 2022-23. 
During the last few years the world witnessed unpredictable complexities which required special & continuous attention, this includes 
combating climate change, preserving natural resources, fighting COVID-19 & reducing carbon emissions.
While adjusting to the new reality brought about by these difficulties, which continue to raise larger questions about world peace and 
prosperity for all, today’s actions could very well shape the fate of the planet, its people and for the generations to come. The rapidly 
changing environment urges businesses to respond to the aspects discussed above. Business needs to be conducted in the best 
ethical & moral standards along with compliance with laws & regulations.
The Company strives to play its part in helping communities to achieve the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs). GGL aims to incorporate this commitment to sustainability into its strategy, operational procedures, and decision-making. 
GGL aims to deliver affordable, reliable and cleaner energy by operating responsibly and performing with excellence while considering 
the Environmental, Social & Governance factors. GGL continues to strengthen these pillars while implementing changes throughout 
its value chain to meet the most pressing challenges including carbon emissions, climate change, environment protection & 
preservation and human rights.
India is one of the fastest-growing economies worldwide and has pledged to achieve “Net Zero” by 2070. The share of Natural Gas in 
India’s total energy mix is around 6.3 % and the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas has set a target to raise the share of natural gas in 
the energy mix to 15% in 2030. To align with the strategy of the Government of India, the Company intends to expand its scale of 
operations to promote the use of natural gas as a “Clean & Green Fuel.”
GGL continues to hold the position among the largest CGD Company in Country. Your company supplies natural gas to more than 
19.28 lakh residential consumers, over 14,390 commercial customer and has erected / commissioned 808 CNG stations for 
vehicular consumers and provides clean energy solutions to over 4,360 industrial units through its wide spread operations with more 
than 35,650 kilometres of Natural Gas pipeline network.
GGL’s primary objective is to deliver higher returns, lower carbon emissions, and increase in shareholder’s value. Climate change is one 
of the greatest challenges that society is facing and the energy sector has a key role to play in helping the world transition to net zero. 
The loss of natural environment and climate change are interconnected and need to be tackled together, the Company is constantly 
transforming to mitigate this issue and may achieve the sustainable development objectives by rooting sustainability in thoughts, 
values, vision and business.
GGL is ready to undertake adjustments required to align with the SDGs. GGL has stepped up its efforts to create a cleaner future by 
blending hydrogen gas with Natural gas which results in less carbon emissions as it reduces the intensity of carbon emitted due to the 
combustion of natural gas. Reducing carbon emissions requires partnership and collaboration, because no one company, industry or 
nation – acting alone – can meet the world’s energy and climate goals. GGL assesses its value chain partners to ensure compliance 
with environmental considerations. 
GGL considers its social commitments towards all employees, customers, suppliers, contractors, and community as ethical duties. 
GGL’s journey toward developing a safety culture has been tremendously exciting, as it now extends the commitment of safety to 
external stakeholders, including business partners, contractors and suppliers, in addition to employees and other internal stakeholders 
through sustainable development policy.
Despite GGL’s huge scale of operations, it tries to mitigate all the concerns coming from the above stakeholders in the best and 
earliest possible manner. GGL drives the business with utmost safety measures and in adherence with the Health Safety and 
Environment policy. Customers are kept at the center of business operations; every necessary step is taken to ensure that customers 
get the best services without any disruptions. GGL remains committed to give back to the society through its various CSR activities 
which are carried out during the year in order to serve the community.  
GGL has policies in place to promote the ethical & transparent work culture and following the guidelines helps to meet all the 
obligations specified by the laws & regulations. GGL has a robust governance framework that ensures that all business practices are 
carried out in a responsible manner. 
In order to become a benchmark for others, GGL continues to concentrate on ESG principles. I would desire to take this opportunity to 
express my appreciation to everyone for their steadfast efforts and cooperation. I also want to thank all the stakeholders for 
continuing to have faith in us. I'm happy to share our Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report with you as we look forward to 
building a strong and sustainable business system. 
Milind Torawane, IAS
Date: 18th July, 2023  
 
 
Managing Director 
Place: Ahmedabad  
 
 
 
Gujarat Gas Limited
58
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE 
To,
The Members
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(CIN: L40200GJ2012SGC069118)
Gujarat Gas CNG Station, Sector 5/C, 
Gandhinagar - 382006 (Gujarat) 
We have examined all relevant records of GUJARAT GAS LIMITED ("Company") for the purpose of certifying compliance of the 
conditions of Corporate Governance as prescribed under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“the Listing Regulations”) for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2023. We have obtained all the information and 
explanations, which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purpose of certification.
The compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. Our examination was limited to 
the procedure and implementation thereof. 
On the basis of our examination of the records produced, explanations and information furnished, we certify that the Company has 
complied with all the mandatory conditions of the Corporate Governance, as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of 
Regulation 46 (2) and Paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations during the year ended on 31st March, 2023. 
This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the 
management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
 
 
For, MANOJ HURKAT AND ASSOCIATES
   
 
Practicing Company Secretaries
 
 
 FRN: P2011GJ025800
 
 
 
 
 MANOJ R HURKAT
 
 
Partner
Place: Ahmedabad 
  FCS No. : 4287, C P No.: 2574 
Date: 20th July, 2023 
 UDIN: F004287E000652594
59
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
CERTIFICATE OF NON DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
To,
The Members
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED 
(CIN: L40200GJ2012SGC069118)
Gujarat Gas CNG Station, 
Sector 5/C, Gandhinagar - 382006 (Gujarat) 
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of GUJARAT GAS 
LIMITED ("Company") produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 
34(3) read with Clause 10(i) of Part C of Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“Listing Regulations”).  
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Director Identification Number [DIN] 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company and its officers, we 
hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the financial year ended on 31st March, 
2023 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of the Company by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or such other statutory authority.
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the same based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as 
to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of 
the Company.
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) read with Clause 10(i) of Part C of Schedule V of 
The SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015) 
 
 
For, MANOJ HURKAT & ASSOCIATES
 
 
 Practicing Company Secretaries
                                                                                            
FRN: P2011GJ025800
 
 
 MANOJ R HURKAT
 
 
Partner
Place: Ahmedabad 
FCS No.: 4287, C P No.: 2574 
th
Date:  10  May, 2023 
UDIN: F004287E000255417
60
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Sr. No. 
Name of Director 
DIN 
Date of appointment in the Company
 
1. 
Shri Jal Patel (upto 19/04/2022) 
00065021 
21/04/2015
 
2. 
Shri Krishnadas Chatterjee (upto 19/04/2022) 
00421999 
21/04/2015
 
3. 
Shri Milind Torawane, IAS (upto 29/12/2022) 
03632394 
10/08/2017
 
4. 
Shri Sanjeev Kumar, IAS (upto 31/03/2023) 
03600655 
04/09/2019
 
5. 
Shri Rajivkumar Gupta, IAS (upto 07/06/2022) 
03575316 
05/07/2021
 
6. 
Shri Bhadresh V. Mehta 
02625115 
15/08/2021
 
7. 
Prof. Yogesh Singh 
06600055 
15/08/2021
 
8. 
Shri Pankaj Kumar, IAS (Retd.) (upto 31/01/2023) 
00267528 
08/09/2021
 
9. 
Shri Raj Kumar, IAS 
00294527 
21/07/2022
 
10. 
Shri Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) 
00023872 
20/04/2022
 
11. 
Dr. Rekha Rani Jain 
01586688 
20/04/2022
 
12. 
Smt. Mona Khandhar, IAS 
06803015 
20/02/2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF CONDUCT
To, 
The Shareholders, 
Gujarat Gas Limited
Gujarat Gas Limited has in place a Code of Conduct (“the code”) for its Board of Directors and Senior Management Personnel. I report 
that the code has been complied with by the Board of Directors and Senior Management of the Company for FY 2022-23.
 
 
For, Gujarat Gas Limited
Place: Ahmedabad 
 Milind Torawane, IAS
Date: 29th April, 2023 
 Managing Director
61
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Gujarat Gas Limited (GGL or the Company) is dedicated towards fostering an atmosphere of transparency and accountability by 
working in partnership and empowering our stakeholders. To protect and for the benefit of all our stakeholders, we strive to promote 
sustainable development. GGL considers its responsibility towards sustainable development as an opportunity to succeed by taking 
actions which are beneficial for society as a whole.
We applaud the Securities and Exchange Board of India's ("SEBI") introduction of the "Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Reporting" ("BRSR") reporting structure, which includes comprehensive Environmental, Social, and Governance ("ESG") disclosures.
This is the first edition of our Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, in which we have  attempted to provide all 
non-financial disclosures in accordance with clause (f) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 34 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.This report provides all our stakeholders with a 
comprehensive view and insight into our company's contribution to the economy, the environment and society, which can be utilized 
to showcase GGL dedication towards long-term growth. In order to meet the expectations of our investors and other stakeholders, 
we are improving the transparency of our report, as well as our strategic approaches to create value for our stakeholders while 
minimizing risk in the external environment.
I. 
Details of the listed entity
II. 
Products/services
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-FY 2022-23
62
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
L40200GJ2012SGC069118
Gujarat Gas Limited
2012
Gujarat Gas CNG Station, Sector 5/C, Gandhinagar – 
382006, Gujarat.
2, Shanti Sadan Society, Near Parimal Garden, Ellisbridge, 
Ahmedabad - 380006 
District: Ahmedabad, Gujarat.
contactbrsr@gujaratgas.com 
079- 26462980, 079-26460095
www.gujaratgas.com
2022-23
BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited (NSE)
INR 137.68 Crores
Mr. Naveen Sharma
Vice-President +079- 26737400
naveen.sharma@gujaratgas.com
The disclosures under this report are made on a standalone 
basis.
1. 
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
2. 
Name of the Listed Entity
3. 
Year of incorporation
4. 
Registered office address
5. 
Corporate address
6. 
E-mail
7. 
Telephone
8. 
Website
9. 
Financial year for which reporting is being done
10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
11. Paid-up Capital
12. Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the 
person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the 
BRSR report
13. Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report 
made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on a 
consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities which 
form a part of its consolidated financial statements, taken 
together).
14. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
15. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover)
Description of Main Activity
Product/service 
Electricity, gas, steam, and air conditioning supply
Natural Gas
Description of Business Activity
NIC Code
City Gas Distribution.
3520- Electricity, Gas, Steam and Air Conditioning Supply; 
Manufacture & distribution of Gas
% of Turnover of the entity
% of total Turnover contributed
100 %
100 %
Sr.No.
Sr.No.
1
1
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
63
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
16. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
17. Markets served by the entity:
18. Details as at the end of Financial Year:
 
a. Number of locations
 
a. Employees and workers (including differently abled)
 
b. Differently abled Employees
 
*Includes CNG stations and other gas installations
 
Gujarat Gas Limited (GGL) is one of India's largest City Gas Distribution (CGD) Company in terms of sales volume operating in 
44 districts in 6 states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab & Madhya Pradesh and 1 Union territory of Dadra 
and Nagar Haveli.
 
* The Company operates its business in the States of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and 
also in the UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman and  Diu.
 
b. 
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?  Nil
 
c. 
A brief on types of Consumers –
 
 
Gujarat Gas Limited is into the business of developing City Gas Distribution (CGD) Networks to supply natural gas 
(Compressed Natural Gas & Piped Natural Gas) to the Industrial, Commercial, Domestic and Transport sector.
Number of plants
Number of offices 
Total
Numbers
Location
Locations
National 
824* 
48 
NA
International 
NA 
NA 
NA
National (No. of States) 
 
 
7*
International (No. of Countries) 
 
 
Nil
III. Operations
IV. Employees
Particulars
Particulars
Employees
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
Workers
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
1. 
Permanent (D) 
879 
828 
94% 
51 
6%
2. 
Other than Permanent (E) 
31 
31 
100% 
- 
-
3. 
Total employees (D + E) 
910 
859 
94% 
51 
6%
1. 
Permanent (D) 
8 
8 
100% 
- 
-
2. 
Other than Permanent (E) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
3. 
Total differently abled employees (D + E) 
8 
8 
100% 
- 
-
1. 
Permanent (F) 
118 
112 
95% 
6 
5%
2. 
Other than Permanent (G) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
3. 
Total employees (F + G) 
118 
112 
95% 
6 
5%
4. 
Permanent (F) 
1 
1 
100 % 
- 
-
5. 
Other than Permanent (G) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
6. 
Total differently abled workers (F + G) 
1 
1 
100% 
- 
-
Total (A)
Total (A)
Male
Male
No. (B)
No. (B)
No. (C)
No. (C)
% (B/A)
% (B/A)
Female
Female
% (C/A)
% (C/A)
Sr.No.
Sr.No.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
64
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
19. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women 
21. Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
22. (i) 
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No)
 
(ii) 
Turnover (in Rs.) - Rs. 17,306.16 Crores (FY 2022-23)
 
(iii) Net worth (in Rs.) - Rs. 7,097.02 Crores (as on 31st March 2023)
 
The amount disbursed for CSR projects during FY 2022 – 23 is Rs.19,35,94,951/. In addition Rs.11,95,35,000/- 
is transferred to unspent CSR account, the total CSR expenditure during FY 2022 – 23 is Rs. Rs.31,31,29,591/-.
20. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
Board of Directors  
7 
2 
28.57%
Key Management Personnel  
3 
- 
-
Permanent Employees 
4.34% 
8.00% 
4.55% 
4.18 % 
5.94 % 
4.28 % 
3.57% 
- 
3.37%
Permanent Workers 
8.55% 
- 
8.13 % 
6.35 % 
- 
6.06 % 
6.69% 
- 
6.41%
Total
Turnover rate in FY 2022-23 Turnover rate in FY 2021-22 Turnover rate in FY 2020-21
No. (B)
Female
Female
Female
(A)
Male
Male
Male
No. and percentage of Females
% (B / A)
Total
Total
Total
V. 
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
VI. CSR Details
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
Name of the holding / 
subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint ventures (A) 
1 
Gujarat State Petroleum  
Holding Company 
Nil 
No
 
Corporation Limited
2 
Gujarat State Petronet Limited 
Holding 
54.17% 
No
3 
Guj Info Petro Limited 
Associate 
49.94% 
No
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated at 
column A, participate in the Business 
Responsibility initiatives of the 
listed entity? (Yes/No) 
Sr.No.
23. Complaints/ Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct:
Links : https://www.gujaratgas.com/corporate-governance/brsrpolicies/
Stakeholder group 
from whom 
complaint is 
received
Remarks
FY 2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No) 
(If Yes, then provide 
web-link for 
grievance redress 
policy
FY 2021-22
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Yes
Communities 
Yes, Refer  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Investors (other than  
Links below 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
shareholders)
Shareholders 
 
49 
- 
- 
41 
- 
-
Employees and workers 
1 
1 
- 
- 
- 
-
Consumers 
 
169,464 
8,239 
- 
155,3,44 
564 
-
Value Chain Partners  
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Other (please specify) 
 
 
 
NA
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
65
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
24. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
 
Indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that 
present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk 
along-with its financial implications, as per the following format
 
GGL has Identified most significant issues which are crucial for addressing the sustainable development goals in the line of 
business in which it operates. Material issues are identified by management based on their experience and the industry. GGL is 
working on procedures to create a framework that will assist it in regularly reviewing the material issues if there are significant 
developments in either the external or internal environment that have an influence on the long-term, sustainable growth with 
involvement of all other stakeholders.
Material issue 
identified
Occupational 
health,
Safety and 
wellbeing
GHG & Carbon 
Emissions 
1
2
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Risk
Opportunity/ 
Risk
Rationale for 
identifying the risk / 
opportunity
Employees are the most 
important resources at GGL. 
Owing to the nature of 
business staff health and 
safety is critical for the 
Company.
It is important for the 
Company to provide a safe 
working environment to its 
employees and workers to 
retain employee and 
enhance worker confidence 
and morale. 
O- Natural gas combustion 
emits fewer pollutants and 
GHGs than coal and oil 
combustion. As a result, GGL 
has a significant opportunity 
as it expands operations to 
deliver natural gas, an 
environment friendly fuel.
Government/ Authority 
regulations on non-usage of 
non-polluting fuel can also 
have a positive impact on 
business operations
R - Emission of natural gas 
directly into atmosphere 
from pipeline damage / 
equipment or as part of 
project & maintenance 
activities since Natural gas is 
predominantly methane 
which is a GHG.
In case of risk, 
approach to adapt or 
mitigate 
• GGL has a comprehensive 
Health safety policy and 
places a high priority on it.
• Robust OHS Management 
system with HSE specific 
SOPs     
• All critical activities are 
carried out after detailed 
risk assessment & 
mitigations are 
implemented in line with 
OHS risk registers.
NA
• Effective coordination with 
digging agencies to prevent 
network damages.
• Prompt emergency 
response for quick isolation 
of the damaged section.
• Isolation valves at regulator-
defined distances to reduce 
emissions after isolation.
• Effective preventive 
maintenance plan & 
adherence to reduce 
breakdown instances
• Efficient commissioning 
SOP to reduce natural gas 
emissions, among other 
things.
Financial implications of 
the risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
Negative, As Loss of Life 
or Loss of Working days 
due to work-related 
illness and injury, which 
may impede the work or 
supply and will involve 
compensations and 
other financials impacts.
Positive, increase in 
operations will lead to 
reduction of carbon 
emissions as compared 
to polluting fuels & 
increase in the overall 
profitability of the 
Company.
Sr.
No.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
66
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Climate 
Change
Asset & 
Product Safety
Human Rights
Community 
Development
3
4
5
6
Risk
Risk
Risk
Opportunity
Climate changes can harm 
the Company by disrupting 
its infrastructure, 
installations and the 
distribution network. 
Government regulations and 
norms on climate and 
emissions can also have an 
impact on it’s business 
operations for e.g. use of 
cleaner energy sources like 
hydrogen powered vehicles, 
EVs.
Since, the company operates 
a city gas distribution 
business, asset & product 
safety is of utmost 
importance.  
Critical shortcoming in asset 
& product safety can cause  
major or  man-made 
disasters which may have 
consequential impact on the 
Company’s operations and 
could negatively impact the 
company’s reputation
Any infringement of human 
rights will result in 
consequences. Additionally, 
it may have an impact on 
GGL’s image and ability to 
attract talent.
GGL promotes self-reliance 
and independence within the 
communities it serves in 
order for them to develop 
sustainably. Through a 
dedicated team that is 
focused on determining the 
requirements of the 
community surrounding its 
operating locations, the 
Company has been 
conducting CSR projects.
GGL has been identifying 
and evaluating climate 
change risks that could 
potentially impact to the 
company its operations and 
will plan to and take 
necessary mitigating and 
adapting steps to combat 
such climate change risk.
The Company regularly 
carries out health and safety 
campaigns among 
customers, and communities 
to address the risk. 
Risk management is done for 
all critical assets – pipelines, 
CNG Stations through safety 
engineering studies like :-
• Hazard Operability study 
(HAZOP)
• Quantitative Risk 
assessment (QRA)
• Escape Muster Evacuation 
& Rescue Analysis 
(EMERA)
• Hazardous Area 
Classification (HAC)
The Company also complies 
with the international safety 
standards and local laws and 
regulations.
GGL has a Human Rights 
Policy and the Company is 
committed to protect the 
human rights of all its 
stakeholders
na
Climate change could 
negatively impact the 
operations of the 
Company, resulting in 
financial losses.
Negative, Loss of 
reputation or any 
hazards could result in 
significant revenue 
losses and increase in 
liabilities.
Negative, As Non-
compliance with laws 
and regulations which 
could have a direct 
financial implication. 
Positive. Supporting the 
community development 
activities helps GGL to 
create a meaningful 
impact for the 
surrounding 
communities.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
67
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Data Privacy 
and Security
Energy 
Water & Waste
7
8
Risk
Risk and 
opportunity
GGL is into city gas 
distribution business and 
distributes gas to domestic 
households, industries etc. A 
substantial amount of 
personal data is collected by 
the Company on a regular 
basis. In order to ensure the 
protection and security of 
the data being recorded, the 
Company takes necessary 
precautions. 
Improving energy efficiency 
throughout its business 
operations is a key 
component of GGL’s Energy 
Strategy. GGL is working on 
Increasing the percentage of 
renewable power for 
combatting emissions. 
By carrying out a cyber risk 
assessment, putting in place 
a business continuity plan for 
IT platforms and adhering to 
the information security & 
data privacy policy, GGL 
ensures the privacy and 
security of data.
GGL has taken the following 
steps to combat the risk:
• Use of renewable sources 
of energy 
• Switching to Gas based 
vehicles from traditional 
fuels like petrol and diesel
• Strengthening Gas leak 
detection systems & 
process.
• Optimum utilization of 
resources 
Negative, Cyber security 
and data privacy issues 
could have a negative 
impact on the day to day 
operations of the 
Company and financial 
losses.
Positive, Shifting towards 
renewable energy might 
reduce overall 
maintenance costs. It 
also contributes to a 
cleaner and greener 
environment.
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
Disclosure Questions
 
Policy and management processes
a. Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle 
and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. 
(Yes / No)
b. Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? 
(Yes/No)
c. Web Link of the Policies, if available
Name of the national and international codes/ certifications/ 
labels/ standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, 
Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, 
ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each principle.
  Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes
  Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes
  Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes
  Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes
https://www.gujaratgas.com/corporate-governance/brsrpolicies/
• ISO 9001:2015 Quality management System 
• ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System 
• ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health & Safety 
Management System 
   P1 
 P2 
 P3 
 P4 
 P5 
 P6 
 P7 
 P8 
 P9
1.
2.
3.
4.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
68
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with 
defined timelines, if any.
• Hydrogen Blending with Natural Gas for CGD 
 GGL & NTPC have now commissioned the pilot project with 
5% hydrogen blending in Natural Gas after due approval 
from the regulator. NTPC produces and supplies the 
required green Hydrogen which is blended with Natural Gas 
through Blending skid and GGL distributes this blended gas 
at the NTPC township in Kawas, Hazira.  
 GGL and NTPC will be presenting a proposal to its regulator 
for phase-wise increasing of such hydrogen concentration 
(Up to 20%) in the blended mixture by FY 2024-25.
• Set up EV Charging Facility at CNG stations
 As a part of Pilot Project and to promote use of electric 
vehicles, GGL has set up an electrical charging facilities at its 
operating COCO CNG Station at Kevadia location (near to 
Statue of Unity) in Narmada GA. The Installed charger 
having capacity of 50 KW Fast Charging facility. The charger 
also supports AC and DC Fast Charging facilities. 
 GGL plans to set up 4 other similar facilities at GGL CNG 
station in line with the arrangement with M/S Tata Power 
Solapur Limited (TPSL) by end of FY2024-25.
• Setting up new CNG stations: 
 GGL is influencing automobile users in its operational areas 
to use compressed natural gas as a clean automotive fuel 
through various campaigns. GGL has made it a priority to 
expand CNG transportation and dispensing infrastructure 
and facilities. CNG is a popular alternative fuel because of its 
clean burning characteristics and low carbon emission in air. 
Natural gas helps to reduce the environmental impact of 
vehicular emissions caused by the use of other polluting 
fuels such as petrol and diesel.
 In FY 2023-24, GGL plans to set up 61 new CNG stations 
across GGL operational areas. Out of these, 39 CNG stations 
are planned to be set up in new geographical areas of GGL. 
• Setting up LNG storage and regasification facility for 
CNG/PNG supply
 Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) is a natural gas, predominantly 
methane (CH4) that has been liquefied for ease of storage 
and transportation. This LNG is pressurized and re-gasified 
through ambient vaporizers for dispensing to customer vehicles 
as an automotive fuel and Piped natural gas to domestic, 
commercial and industrial customers on priority in areas far 
away from gas supply point of transportation pipeline. 
 GGL plans to set up 4 new facilities for LNG storage and 
regasification by the end of FY2023-24.
• Injection of BioGas into Natural Gas Pipeline: 
 GGL has planned to commission a project for injection of 
Biogas in existing Natural Gas pipeline network at two 
locations in Hoshiarpur-Gurdaspur GA / Bharuch GA for 
supply to customers by end of FY24. 
 GGL has already established agreements with Biogas 
manufacturers to supply Biogas to GGL at desired pressure 
for these projects.
5.
Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, 
goals and targets along-with reasons in case the same are not 
met.
The Company is in the process to develop and map the 
performance against the specific commitments.
6.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
69
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Governance, leadership and oversight
Statement by director responsible for the business 
responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, 
targets and achievements (listed entity has flexibility 
regarding the placement of this disclosure)
Details of the highest authority responsible for 
implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility 
policy (ies).
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ 
Director responsible for decision making on sustainability 
related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
The statement on sustainability related risks, goals, 
commitments and the Company’s contribution is available in 
Annexure-7 of the Board’s Report for the FY 2022-23.
The Board of Directors have constituted a Business 
Responsibility & Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) Committee 
for reviewing and recommending the Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report to the Board of Director’s including 
oversight of policies.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) 
Committee comprising of the following members:
1. Shri Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)
2. Shri Bhadresh Mehta
3. Prof. Yogesh Singh
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
     Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director / 
Committee of the Board/ Any other Committee
Performance against above policies and follow up action
Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ 
evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
Questions
If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and, rectification of any non-compliances
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any other – 
please specify)
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its 
business (Yes/No)
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
  Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes
No
  Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes
Reviews are undertaken periodically as and when required.
Not Applicable
   P1 
 P2 
 P3 
 P4 
 P5 
 P6 
 P7 
 P8 
 P9
   P1 
 P2 
 P3 
 P4 
 P5 
 P6 
 P7 
 P8 
 P9
   P1 
 P2 
 P3 
 P4 
 P5 
 P6 
 P7 
 P8 
 P9
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
70
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and 
in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
The first principle of BRSR gives information about the governance structure of the organisation. It shows us 
a bird's-eye view of how the organization's policies are distributed, shared, explained, and put into practice 
in all of its operations and functions. GGL ensures that business and operations are conducted with integrity, 
accountability and transparency. The Company’s Code of Conduct and ethics strategy are the guiding 
principles for conducting and governing the business and reflect how we treat our stakeholders including 
employees, customers, communities, and the environment. 
Segment
Board of Directors
Key Managerial Personnel
Employees other than BoD and KMPs
Workers
Penalty/ Fine
Settlement
Compounding fee
Imprisonment
Punishment
All principles
All principles
Health and Safety, Fire Fighting, Operation 
and Maintenance – Emergency Handling, 
Cyber Security Awareness, National and 
International Conferences on CGD business
Health & Safety
There were no fines / penalties / punishment / award / compounding fees / settlement amount paid in 
proceedings (by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators / law enforcement agencies / judicial 
institutions, in the financial year ended March 31, 2023.
Since there were no fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the 
entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, in the financial year ended March 
31, 2023, there were no appeals/revisions filed.
There were no non-monetary penalties in proceedings (by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with 
regulators / law enforcement agencies / judicial institutions, in the financial year ended March 31, 2023.
4
4 
68
2
100
100
NA
NA
Total number of 
training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
NGRBC Principle
NGRBC Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ judicial 
institutions
Brief of 
the Case
Brief of 
the Case
Amount 
(In INR)
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Topics / principles covered 
under the training
%age of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the 
entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in 
the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 
of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or 
non-monetary action has been appealed
Monetary
Non - Monetary
1.
2.
3.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
71
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Yes, the Company has an Anti-corruption and Anti-Bribery policy. Employees, intermediaries, consultants, dealers, contractors, 
suppliers, etc. working for or acting on behalf of the Company are subject to Company's anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy.
The Policy reflects the Company and its management’s commitment for maintaining highest ethical standards while 
undertaking open and fair business practices and culture and implementing and enforcing effective systems to detect, counter 
and prevent bribery and other corrupt business practices.
Refer link for anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy à https://www.gujaratgas.com/corporate-governance/brsrpolicies/
Directors
KMPs
Employees 
Workers
Number of complaints received 
in relation to issues of Conflict of 
Interest of the Directors
Number of complaints received 
in relation to issues of Conflict of 
Interest of the KMPs
Contractor staff – 3100
Customers, general public & 
other utilities – 627
There were no instances of any disciplinary action taken by any law enforcement agency for the charges 
of bribery/ corruption against Directors/ KMPs/employees/workers. The senior leadership upholds the 
highest level of integrity and instills the same in other levels of management.
GGL has not received any complaints with respect to conflict of interest. Conflicts of interest 
can arise when an employee has a personal interest or is engaged in an activity that could 
impair their capacity to carry out tasks impartially, objectively, and successfully.
The Company upholds highest standards of ethics and compliance in order to prevent any 
kind of conflict of interest and we are vigilant in swiftly identifying and minimizing any such 
occurrences. 
Principle 3,6 & 9 are covered under these programmes.
Training / awareness topics for contractor staff – 
• Basic safety training
• Technical competency trainings (such as CGD O&M 
training, Work at height, GI plumbing, Defensive driving, 
CNG filling, PE welder training etc.)
• Fire-fighting training
• First Aid training
• Lifesaver compliance
• PPE usage
• Permit to Work system
• Hazard identification and site specific risk assessment
• Emergency handling
• Lessons learnt from incidents
Natural Gas related safety awareness sessions for customers, 
villages along pipeline route, Societies, Schools, other utilities 
and public in general covering approximately 9000 people
Contractor staff - 100%
Awareness programmes for 
100% new customer during 
commissioning/conversion.
FY 2022-23 Current Financial Year
FY 2022-23 Current Financial Year
Topics / principles covered under the training
Number 
Number 
Remarks
Remarks
Particulars
Particulars
Total number of 
awareness programmes 
held
FY 2021-22 Previous Financial Year
FY 2021-22 Previous Financial Year
%age of value chain partners 
covered (by value of business 
done with such partners) under 
the awareness programmes
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a 
web-link to the policy.
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
Not Applicable, as there were no instances of corruption or conflicts of interest, no corrective action was required to be taken on 
matters pertaining to fines / penalties / action taken by regulators / law enforcement agencies / judicial institutions.
Leadership Indicators
1. Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year: 
4.
5.
6.
7.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
72
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) 
If Yes, provide details of the same. 
 
Yes, the Company has a Code of Conduct policy for the Board of Directors and senior management personnel which 
provides clear guidelines for avoiding and disclosing an actual or potential conflict of interest with the Company.
 
All Directors are required to disclose to the Board their concern / conflict of interest during their onboarding and any 
subsequent modifications have to be intimated timely.
 
The Company receives an annual declaration from its Board of Directors and senior management personnel on the entities 
they are interested in and ensures requisite approvals as required under the applicable laws are taken prior to entering into 
transactions with each entity.
 
Refer link for Conflict of Interest/ Code of Conduct policy à https://www.gujaratgas.com/corporate-governance/brsrpolicies/
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
The Second Principle is primarily concerned with production and consumption of resources. It focuses on protecting natural 
resources by responsible consumption and creating those products which reduces negative impact to environment and society 
throughout its Lifecycle.
GGL is a company which is into the business of distribution of natural gas, as compared to other fuels it emits less carbon into the 
environment and has low impacts on the environment. GGL is willing to support local vendors, vulnerable and marginalized groups 
and other supply chain partners who can help us to achieve our strategic objectives and long-term sustainable aspirations because 
doing so would mean aiding the support to the economy as a whole. GGL has Sustainable development policy in place to mitigate 
these issues and tenders general terms & conditions that require vendors to comply with all Health, Safety and Environment, human 
rights & all other applicable regulatory compliances. 
NA
☞ Blending of Hydrogen gas with Natural Gas for CGD (City Gas Distribution): 
 
GGL along with the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) commissioned India’s 
first green hydrogen blending project at NTPC’s township in Hazira, Surat, Gujarat.
 
The petroleum and natural gas regulatory board has approved a 5% volume blending 
of green hydrogen with PNG.
 
Hydrogen is not a greenhouse gas (GHG), nor does it produce GHGs when burned. 
This makes Hydrogen a potential substitute for reducing the carbon intensity or 
pollution of some energy or fuel applications. 
☞ GGL has a unique opportunity to leverage the nature of its integrated natural gas 
business to explore applications for hydrogen as part of its efforts to reduce GHG 
emissions.
☞ Establishment of LNG/LCNG Station:
 
In the previous year, GGL had established a number of LNG (Liquified Natural Gas)/ 
LCNG (Liquified Compressed Natural Gas) Stations which help to reduce the 
energy/fuel consumption. 
 
Establishment of LNG/LCNG stations leads to reduction in trips for gas 
transportation made by transport trucks and corresponding decrease in fuel usage. 
 
(Establishment of LNG/LCNG Station in Thane, Maharashtra results in reduction of 
approximately 3000 km/day travel by CNG trucks/ Mobile Cascade Vehicles (MCV)).
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental 
and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
R&D
Capex
Nil     
0.53 Crores
 Nil     
19.79 Crores
FY 2022-23 
Current 
Financial Year
FY 2021-22 
Previous 
Financial Year
1.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
73
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
GGL is a City Gas Distribution (CGD) Company which provides natural gas to its consumers. Natural gas reduces approximately 
around 50% greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions compared to coal used in various industrial applications. It can also be 
transported through pipelines to various places, thereby replacing the carbon footprint generated by transporting liquid 
fuel/coal through roads/rails. 
GGL has also started replacing its diesel driven transport vehicles with CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) as a fuel. 
The company has a process of procurement through E- tenders which has resulted in reduction in use of paper. E- tenders 
including the general terms and conditions are accessible on the website of the Company.
Additionally, GGL encourages its partners to adhere to Safety and environmental standards like, ISO 14001, and ISO 45001.
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, 
for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
The company is a City Gas Distribution (CGD) company, which is involved in distribution of gas. Owing to the nature of the 
product of the Company, the same cannot be reclaimed and hence the question of reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of 
life is not applicable to this sector.
However, GGL has a well-established process of waste management which includes collection, disposal and further recycling 
as applicable for waste generated during project and operational activities of the organisation. This includes the following:
a) Plastic waste - Plastic waste generated at GGL includes PE pipe short pieces (<5 meters) which cannot be re-used and 
collected by contractor and submitted to GGL stores. Same is checked through the material reconciliation process. This 
waste is then sold through auction at MSTC official website.
b) E-waste - E-waste generated at GGL is from the offices & owned CNG stations. Waste is collected and sent to Stores and 
are then disposed of to E-waste authorized vendors
c) Hazardous Waste - Hazardous waste generated at GGL comprising used oil from equipment such as CNG compressors are 
collected by GGL contractor for compressor maintenance and is sent to the pollution control board approved vendors for 
recycling.
d) Other non-hazardous waste – Waste such as food, paper, cardboard, metal, glass etc. are collected and disposed/sold as 
scrap-to-scrap vendors / municipal waste collectors.
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the 
waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control 
Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is not applicable to the company because of the nature of its product and service 
offerings. GGL has an established SOP on Waste management which clearly defines project & operational waste collection and 
disposal. GGL when obtaining consent from the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) submits its hazardous waste 
management plan and ensures compliance with the requirements of SPCB consent regarding waste management and relevant 
data reporting to SPCB for the same.
2.
3.
4.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or for 
its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format? 
2. 
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your products / 
services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same 
along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
NIC Code
% of total turnover 
contributed
Whether conducted 
by an independent 
external agency
Name of 
product/service
Boundary for which the life 
cycle perspective/ 
assessment was conducted
Results communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No)
Description of the risk/ concern
Name of product/ Service
Action Taken
Life cycle assessment for any of the products has not been currently performed by GGL.
Life cycle assessment for any of the products is not currently performed by GGL. There are no significant social or 
environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of products/services have been identified.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
74
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
3. 
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) or 
providing services (for service industry). 
4. 
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely disposed.
 
*Hazardous waste “Used Oil” is Given to PCB (Pollution Control board) approved vendor for recycling
5. 
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Recycled or re-used input material 
to total material
Indicate Product Category
FY 2022-23
Current Financial Year (2022-23)
Safely Disposed
Safely Disposed
Recycled
Recycled
Re- used
Re- used
Indicate Input Material
Recycled or re-used input material 
to total material
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as 
% of total products sold in respective category
FY 2021-22
Previous Financial Year (2021-22)
GGL is in the business of distribution of natural gas to domestic, commercial, industrial & CNG Consumers. Natural gas and 
other project inputs materials (pipeline/fittings/equipment etc.) procured generally do not include any recycled/reused 
material considering safety requirements & standards. Therefore, over-all no recycled or reused input material can be 
considered for GGL.
Not Available as product recycling is not relevant for the industry. GGL product is Natural Gas which is used as fuel therefore no 
reclaiming is possible considering the very nature of product, also no packaging material is involved.
Plastics (including packaging) 
- 
- 
9.52 MT 
- 
- 
17.58 MT
E-Waste 
- 
- 
4.40 MT 
- 
- 
3.57 MT
Hazardous Waste* 
- 
82.46 KL  
- 
- 
75.96 KL  
-
Battery waste 
- 
- 
18.17 MT 
- 
- 
7.39 MT
Other non-hazardous Waste 
- 
- 
203.63 MT 
- 
- 
347.41 MT
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
This principle is focused on equity, dignity, and quality of life of the organization employees as well as 
employees of value chain partners. Entities must comply with the regulatory and statutory Requirements and 
further provide equal opportunity to all the employees.
GGL places great emphasis on employee growth and well-being because these factors boost output, morale 
and reduce attrition rates. Workers are an organization's most valuable asset since they not only act as a 
conduit between the Company and its consumers, but they also significantly contribute to the overall success 
of the company. GGL has a sharp focus on inclusion and diversity, health and wellbeing and continuous learning and development of 
its employees and workers. The Company’s redressal mechanisms enable workers to report issues from across the organization, 
allowing them to be addressed rapidly and effectively.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
75
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Essential Indicators
Male 
828 
828 
100% 
828 
100%  
- 
- 
828 
100 % 
- 
-
Female 
51 
51 
100% 
51 
100% 
51 
100% 
- 
- 
- 
-
Total 
879 
879 
100% 
879 
100% 
51 
100% 
828 
100% 
- 
-
Male 
112 
112 
100% 
112 
100% 
- 
- 
112 
100% 
- 
-
Female 
6 
6 
100% 
6 
100% 
6 
100% 
- 
- 
- 
-
Total 
118 
118 
100% 
118 
100% 
6 
100% 
112 
100% 
- 
-
Male 
31 
31 
100% 
31 
100% 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Female 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Total 
31 
31 
100% 
31 
100% 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Male 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Female 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Total 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
PF 
100% 
100% 
Yes 
100% 
100% 
Yes
Gratuity* 
93% 
100% 
Yes 
95% 
100% 
Yes
ESI* 
4% 
- 
Yes 
3% 
- 
Yes
Others Please 
Specify (National 
Nil 
Nil 
NA 
Nil  
Nil 
 NA
 Pension Scheme)
Day Care facilities
FY 2021-22 (Previous Financial Year)
Day Care facilities
%
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
%
a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year.
Accessibility of workplaces
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the 
entity in this regard.
The Company owned offices are accessible to differently abled employees and workers as per the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. Wheelchair’s facilities are available at the Company owned offices of Gujarat Gas Limited.
b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
% of employees covered by
% of workers covered by
Permanent Employees
Permanent workers
Other than Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent workers
At GGL, workers are hired through "Third Party Contractors" on need basis for completion of identified business operations 
from time to time and mechanisms are being built to track workers that GGL recruits through "Third Party Contractors”.
* For Gratuity and ESI, all eligible employees are covered under the respective schemes.
1.
2.
3.
Number
No. of workers 
covered as a 
% of total 
workers
Number
Paternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
%
No. of 
employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
%
Number
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
Number
Maternity benefits
FY 2022-23 (Current Financial Year)
Maternity benefits
%
No. of workers 
covered as a 
% of total 
workers
%
Number
No. of 
employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
Number
Accident insurance
Accident insurance
%
%
Number
Number
Health insurance
Health insurance
%
%
Number
Number
Total 
(A)
Total 
(A)
Category
Category
Benefits
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
76
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy
Yes, the company has an equal opportunity policy in place which is applicable to all stakeholders under its human rights policy. 
The policy states that facilities for people with disabilities will be made, along with the required infrastructure and policies, as 
well as other privileges like leave of absence, opportunities for learning and growth and other benefits in accordance with legal 
requirements and accepted business standards. 
Provide link to the policy: https://www.gujaratgas.com/corporate-governance/brsrpolicies/
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
workers? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
Presently, there are two unions in GGL i.e. GGCL Employees Union, Surat; GGCL staff Union, Ankleshwar representing the 
permanent workers of the Company.
4.
5.
6.
7.
Male 
100% 
89% 
- 
-
Female 
100% 
100% 
- 
-
Total 
100% 
89% 
- 
-
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
Permanent Workers
Other than Permanent Workers
The company has a stage wise grievance redressal procedure as mentioned in Workplace 
Behaviour policy which is an easily accessible mechanism available to all the employees for 
redressal of their grievances. Employees having grievances shall submit his or her 
grievances to Grievance Committee which is constituted by Managing Director. The 
committee is formed for timely redressal of grievance as and when grievances arise. 
Managing Director provides final decision on basis of the facts of the case submitted to 
him or her by Committee.
Permanent Workers
Yes/No
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Permanent Employees
Return to work rate
Gender
Total Permanent  
879 
- 
NA 
879 
- 
NA
Employees
Male 
828 
- 
NA 
830 
- 
NA
Female 
51 
- 
NA 
49 
- 
NA
Total Permanent  
118 
118 
100% 
128 
128 
100%
Workers
Male 
112 
112 
100% 
122 
122 
100%
Female 
6 
6 
100% 
6 
6 
100%
FY 2021-22 (Previous Financial Year)
% (D / C)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (D)
Total 
employees / 
workers in 
respective 
category (C)
% (B / A)
FY 2022-23 (Current Financial Year)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (B)
Total 
employees / 
workers in 
respective 
category (A)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
77
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Health and safety management system:
A. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). 
If yes, the coverage of such a system? 
 
Yes, GGL has established its Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Management system with reference to ISO 
standard 45001:2018 and has successfully completed its recertification audits. The certificates show the company's 
ongoing dedication to health and safety management. GGL ensures that all management choices are consistent with the 
Company’s goals for health and safety, that the management systems follow the best industry standards and are 
adequately resourced.
 
GGL recognizes that the protection of the health and safety of all those involved in its operation and public at large. It is an 
integral part of the company’s business operations and the prime responsibility of management at each level. GGL’s assets 
have been designed, constructed, commissioned and are operated and maintained, such that the risks to personnel are 
reduced to as low as reasonably practicable (ALARP). GGL operations are driven by the goal of zero injuries, with the aim to 
ensure that every employee working for and on behalf of the company returns home safely at the end of each working day. 
 
GGL Health and Safety Management system coverage includes GGL HSE Policy, HSE and Departmental Standard Operating 
Procedures and Guidelines covering HSE performance management, Operational HSE Management, Audits, Permit System, 
Lifesaver compliances, Training and Competency, Outsourced services HSE management and controls, Document 
Management, Management reviews etc. GGL HSE Management system is implemented covering all GGL operating 
locations and corporate functions.
Employees
Workers
Employees
Workers
8.
9.
10.
Male 
859 
433 
50% 
192 
22% 
857 
321 
37% 
161 
19%
Female 
51 
25 
49% 
6 
12% 
49 
3 
6% 
7 
14%
Total 
910 
458 
50% 
198 
22% 
906 
334 
37% 
180 
20%
Male 
112 
14 
13% 
3 
3% 
122 
10 
8% 
12 
10%
Female 
6 
3 
50% 
1 
17% 
6 
- 
- 
- 
-
Total 
118 
17 
14% 
4 
3% 
128 
10 
8% 
12 
9%
 
 
No. (B) 
% (B / A) 
No. (C) 
% (C / A) 
 
No. (E) 
% (E / D) 
No. (F) 
% (F / D)
FY 2021-22 (Previous Financial Year)
On Skill upgradation
On Health and 
safety measures
Total (A)
On Skill upgradation
FY 2022-23 (Current Financial Year)
On Health and 
safety measures
Total (A)
Category
Male 
857 
789 
92% 
865 
820 
95%
Female 
49 
46 
94% 
52 
49 
94%
Total 
906 
835 
92% 
917 
869 
95%
Male
Female
Total
Workers are the union workers whose performance is considered and settled via the settlement 
agreements determined over a 4year periods.
FY 2021-22 (Previous Financial Year)
% (D / C)
No. (D)
Total (C)
% (B / A)
FY 2022-23 (Current Financial Year)
No. (B)
Total (A)
Category
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
78
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
B. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis 
by the entity?
 
The identification of Health and Safety hazards associated with GGL's activities and facilities is a continuous process that 
determines the past, current and potential HSE impact of routine and non-routine activities, facilities at GGL workplace and 
activities of all personnel (i.e., visitors, sub-contractors, suppliers) having access to GGL workplace.
 
GGL has established procedure: 
 
• To identify the hazards and Environment Impacts associated with GGL’s activities and facilities. The procedure starts at 
an early stage in any development of new facilities, activities, processes, or tasks, to allow good Health, Safety practices 
to be ‘built in’.   
 
• To assess the risk levels and impacts to determine those hazards, which have or can have significant HSE risk level. 
Risk/Impact assessment considers both the severity of the consequences of a specified adverse event and the 
probability (the likelihood) of it occurring. 
 
• To implement in time effective control measures to reduce the risks / impacts to tolerable risk level i.e. ALARP level. 
Tolerable risk / impact or ALARP risk is the risk that has been reduced to a level that can be endured by the GGL having 
regard to legal obligation and GGL own policy.
 
 
GGL has established various tools including but not limited to these following tools for identification of Hazards & 
assessment of risks:
 
 
1) Hazard reporting hard copy formats
 
 
2) Hazard reporting online system
 
 
3) Activities like Hazard Hunt 
 
 
4) Occupational Health & Safety risk registers for each kind of job
 
 
5) Site Specific Risk Assessment before start of each job
 
 
6) Tool-box Talk before start of each job
 
 
7) Permit to Work System for each job
 
 
8) Safety Engineering Studies like Hazard Operability (HAZOP), Quantitative Risk Assessment (QRA) for all new 
installations & modifications in existing installations
C. Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from 
such risks. (Y/N) 
 
Yes, All GGL employees are trained on Health & Safety related aspects which includes defining Hazards and examples of 
work-related hazards and methods of reporting hazard including further actions.
 
GGL has defined targets for reporting hazards for its contractors, so as to get them actively involved in looking out for 
hazards or hazardous situations. Risk mitigation actions are taken against these reported Hazards on priority depending 
upon criticality of hazard or its corrective actions which are tracked in the system.
 
GGL motivates staff and workers on reporting hazards by recognizing and rewarding best reported hazards for each 
operational area every month.
D. Do the employees/ workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/ No)
 
Yes, GGL has established following policies for employees to support them for non-occupational medical & healthcare 
services:
 
1) Health Care Policy - Health Check-up & OPD
 
2) Insurance Scheme - Mediclaim Insurance, Group Personal Accident Insurance & Life Insurance
 
GGL has tie-ups with hospitals in each area of operation to provide employees with medical and healthcare services as 
needed.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
79
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
GGL has established its Occupational Health, Safety and Environment management system with reference to ISO standard 
45001:2018. GGL has established and maintained a Work permit system to ensure any works potentially hazardous to people, 
environment, or assets are controlled and conducted safely.
GGL has identified 10 Lifesaver areas which are safety critical areas or inherently hazardous processes which have a potential 
to lead to loss of life situations if safe working practices are not followed. Lifesaver rules are defined to be followed while 
performing activities in GGL Lifesaver areas. GGL Lifesavers areas are listed below:
• 
Safe Systems of Work
• 
Gas Escape Handling
• 
Excavation, Manual boring & Horizontal Directional Drilling (HDD)
• 
Working at Height
• 
Confined Space Entry
• 
Lifting Operation
• 
Electrical
• 
Driving
• 
CNG Handling
• 
LNG Handling
GGL has established two major risk assessment and mitigation techniques to ensure safe & Healthy workplace:
-Quantitative risk assessment for all installations to establish risk is under ALARP (As low as reasonably practicable) and ensure 
compliance to all recommendations of such risk assessments; and
Job Safety & Occupational Health Risk assessment and Site Specific Risk Assessment for all jobs and sites before starting any 
permit to work and implements mitigation measures.
HSE initiatives and programs such as Safety tours by Management, awareness sessions with frontline workers and supervisors 
on various aspects of Safety are carried out to improve HSE Performance.
11.
12.
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)  
Employees 
Nil 
Nil
(per one million-person hours worked) 
Workers 
Nil 
Nil
Total recordable work-related injuries 
Employees 
Nil 
Nil
 
Workers 
Nil 
Nil
No. of fatalities 
Employees 
Nil 
Nil
 
Workers 
Nil 
Nil
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health  
Employees 
Nil 
Nil
(excluding fatalities) 
Workers 
Nil 
Nil
FY 2021-22 
Previous Financial Year
FY 2022-23 
Current Financial Year
Category
Safety Incident/Number
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
13.
Working Conditions
Health & Safety
No such complaints for working conditions and health and safety were received.
FY 2021-22 (Previous Financial Year)
Remarks
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Filed during 
the year
Remarks
FY 2022-23 (Current Financial Year)
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Filed during 
the year
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
80
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Assessments for the year:
14.
Health and safety practices
Working Conditions
% of your plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
• 
GGL covered 100% of the geographic areas in Internal audit during FY 21–22 and FY 22–23 
through visits to Sites and Offices.
• 
In order to ensure and monitor site safety compliances, GGL regularly conducts HSE tours and 
Lifesaver-Workplace Inspections (WPI) at Sites. The Lifesaver score is tracked for each 
geographical region.
GGL has successfully conducted compliance audits & applicable recertification audits with 
respect to below listed PNGRB regulations through Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board 
(PNGRB) empaneled Third Party Inspection Agency (TPIA) for Geographical Areas. 
• First ERDMP Certification Audits: Successfully completed for Eight (8) new Geographical 
Area (GA) in line with PNGRB Codes of Practices for Emergency Response and Disaster 
Management Plan, regulations in FY 2022-23.
 
1) Narmada GA,
 
2) Ahmedabad Rural GA, 
 
3) Jalore-Sirohi GA, 
 
4) Ujjain-Dewas-Indore GA, 
 
5) Jhabua-Banswara-Ratlam-Dungarpur GA, 
 
6) Ferozepur-Faridkot-Sri Muktsar Sahib GA, 
 
7) Hoshiarpur-Gurdaspur GA 
 
8) Sirsa-Fatehabad-Mansa GA 
• First T4S & IMS Certification Audits: Successfully completed for Seven (7) new Geographical 
Areas in line with PNGRB Technical Standards and Specifications including Safety Standards 
(T4S), regulations & PNGRB Integrity Management System (IMS), regulations in FY 2022-23.
 
1) Narmada GA,
 
2) Ahmedabad Rural GA, 
 
3) Jalore-Sirohi GA, 
 
4) Ujjain-Dewas-Indore GA, 
 
5) Jhabua-Banswara-Ratlam-Dungarpur GA, 
 
6) Ferozepur-Faridkot-Sri Muktsar Sahib GA, 
 
7) Hoshiarpur-Gurdaspur GA 
• Periodic IMS Certification Audits: Successfully completed for Fourteen (14) Geographical 
Areas –as per the defined periodicity of TPIA audits, in line with PNGRB Integrity Management 
System (IMS), regulations in FY 2022-23.
 
1) Surat Ankleshwar Bharuch GA
 
2) Hazira GA 
 
3) Dahej GA
 
4)  Navsari GA
 
5)  Valsad GA
 
6)  Bhavnagar GA
 
7)  Gandhinagar GA
 
8)  Nadiad GA
 
9)  Jamnagar GA
 
10)  Rajkot (including Morbi) GA
 
11)  Surendranagar GA, 
 
12)  Kutch GA
 
13)  Amreli GA
 
14)  Dahod GA
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
81
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
• Periodic T4S Audit: Successfully completed for Two (2) Geographical Areas in line with 
PNGRB Technical Standards and Specifications including Safety Standards (T4S), regulations 
in FY 2022-23 & as per the defined periodicity of TPIA audits.
 
1) Amreli GA 
 
2) Dahod GA 
• 
PNGRB multidisciplinary audit carried out for compliance to PNGRB T4S, IMS and ERDMP 
regulations at Amritsar geographical area in FY 22-23 by multidisciplinary team of PNGRB 
members and senior members of other CGD companies.
• 
ISO Re-Certification audit carried out with respect to
• 
ISO 9001-Quality Management System, 
• 
ISO 14001 -Environmental Management System 
• 
ISO 45001 Occupational Health & Safety Management System.
The ISO Certification body covered 5 GA & Corporate functions & offices in FY 2021-22 and 
granted certificates for 3 years and 12 GA and Corporate Functions & Office in FY 2022-23 and 
renewed the certificate.
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
All major incidents at GGL are investigated and an investigation report is established and also submitted to regulatory body, 
PNGRB along with compliance actions. Corrective actions as identified in these investigation reports are implemented to 
prevent re-occurrence of such incidents.
Any significant risk arising from assessment of health & safety practices and working conditions are also captured in risk 
registers such as occupational health & safety risk register and may also be included in business risk register. All 
mitigation/assurance activities identified are implemented through existing or new controls. e.g.
1. To reduce mobile cascade vehicle (MCV) road incidents/accidents various mitigations have been implemented like Speed 
governors, monitoring of MCV vehicles speed through vehicle tracking system (VTS), MCV route risk assessment & sharing 
of precautions along the route with drivers
2. Checks on steel pipeline network to confirm that no buried (underground) metallic component is without corrosion 
protection. 
3. Daily site closure checklist developed for worksites exposed to road traffic risks 
4. CNG Safety audio message developed and played at CNG stations to raise customer awareness regarding installation of 
tested and approved CNG cylinders
Leadership Indicators
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees 
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N). 
 
(A) Employees: Yes - Company has a detailed HR policy which covers all its employees in the event of his/ her death.
 
(B) Workers: Yes - Permanent workers are covered under Life insurance and Compensatory package in the event of his/her 
death.
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited 
by the value chain partners.
 
GGL has mechanisms and systems, which encourage the compliance of statutory dues by value chain partners. The 
company via its general terms and conditions of the tender documents enocurage that statutory dues including Provident 
Fund, Income Tax, Sales Tax, Goods and Service Tax and other statutory dues have generally been regularly deposited by the 
Company to the appropriate authorities.
15.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
82
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
3. Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health / 
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment: 
 
There is no case noted where employee/worker have suffered high consequence work related injury / ill-health /in FY 
2022-23 and FY 2021-22.
4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No) 
 
No, presently there are no transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment.
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
GGL has established SOP on Contractor Performance Assessment with an objective to monitor the performance of 
Contractors / Service providers in terms of compliance with all applicable GGL policies, processes, standards, procedures, 
guidelines and other Contractual obligations related to Project/task delivery & HSE. Contractor’s/Service provider’s 
performance data are captured on a monthly basis as per CPAR (Contractor Performance Assessment Report) format. 
• 
Business Performance – 70% Weightage
• 
Contract Management – 5% Weightage
• 
Quality Control – 5% Weightage
• 
HSE Compliance – 10% Weightage
• 
GGL Lifesaver Compliance – 5% Weightage
• 
Key Performance – 5% Weightage
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners. 
 
Not Applicable, as there were no significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and 
working conditions of Company’s value chain partners.
Employees 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Workers 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Health and safety practices 
100% Contractors
Working Conditions 
100% Contractors
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated 
and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable employment
% of value chain partners (by value of business done 
with such partners) that were assessed
FY 2021-22  
(Previous Financial Year)
FY 2022-23 
(Current Financial Year)
Total no. of affected employees/ workers
FY 2021-22 
(Previous Financial Year)
FY 2022-23 
(Current Financial Year)
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
According to this principle organizations must consider the expectations of all parties involved in their business, both internal & 
external. In particular the affected vulnerable group & Communities.
It has become necessary for GGL to continue collecting and disclosing both quantitative and qualitative indicators to demonstrate 
transparency and effective communication with all its stakeholders and to address sustainability issues that are critical to its 
business's operations. GGL is continuously engaging with its stakeholders in order to mitigate concerns of any of the stakeholders.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
83
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Stakeholder 
Group
Community
Shareholders/
Investors
Suppliers & 
Contractors
Employees
Regulatory 
Bodies
Customers
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group 
(Yes/No)
No
No
No
No
No
No
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website, Other)
• Night meetings
• Social & Safety Awareness 
programs (Street Plays)
• Canopy Marketing
• Door to Door Marketing
• Display tricycle
• Annual Reports
• Individual communications to 
shareholders
• Annual General Meeting
• Newspaper advertisement
• Postal Ballot Notice
• SMS
• Emails
• Website
• N-procure website
• GGL website
• Prebid Meetings
• Kick-off Meetings
• Contracts
• E-mails
• Letters
• Circulars
• Intranet
• Annual Safety & technical 
competency trainings
• Safety Awareness Programs
• Grievance redressal mechanism
• Monthly Contractors Performance 
meetings
• E-mails
• Circulars
• Intranet
• Grievance redressal mechanisms
• Website
• Emails
• Open house
• Letter Communications
• Meetings
• Website
• Mobile application
• SMS 
• What’s-app
• Pamphlets
• Safety Awareness Campaign
• Customer Satisfaction survey 
(Door to Door survey)
• Marketing & Safety 
Awareness
• Financial Results
• Business Growth and 
Profitability
• Matters pertaining to investor 
servicing
• Statutory Communications as 
per applicable SEBI Laws
• Performance Highlights
• Scope of work
• Quality Health safety & 
environment
• Tender Terms & Conditions
• Performance review.
• Learning and development
• Employee wellbeing
• Quarterly financial Performance 
& major developments
• Industry related 
Suggestions/Concerns
• Business plans
• Advocacy on Public Policy & 
Regulatory Framework
• Progress & Compliances Review
• Customer surveys
• Product Quality, Health and 
Safety
• Operational concerns
• Billing matters
As and when 
required
Annual as well as 
need basis
As and when 
required 
As and when 
required
As and when 
required
As and when 
required
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly / 
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including 
key topics and concerns 
raised during such 
engagement
Essential Indicators
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
According to GGL, any individual or group who can influence or are impacted by its business and operations are considered key 
stakeholders. GGL has developed mechanisms to map both its internal and external stakeholders as part of the sustainability 
reporting process.
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
1.
2.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
84
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Leadership Indicators
1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board. 
 
GGL recognizes the importance of active interaction with its stakeholders in meeting their needs and increasing 
stakeholder confidence. The Company's management interacts with key stakeholders within regular intervals. In these 
meetings, Sustainability related concerns or issues including economic, environmental and social topics are discussed and 
stakeholders are made aware of sustainability concerns. In the coming years, the Company plans to further enhance its 
focus on engagement around sustainability related matters in these meetings.
2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental and 
social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on 
these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity. 
 
As part of the materiality assessment process, GGL investigates environmental, social and governance related issues that 
are crucial for the company's success. The company’s management has identified material topics based on its experience 
and industry practice.
3. Provide details of instances of engagement with and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups. 
 
The concerns of the vulnerable/ marginalized stakeholders’ groups are mainly addressed over various parameters such as 
education, empowerment, health, infrastructure, relief, conservation, etc. 
 
GGL has taken initiatives for its identified disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders, some of which are 
mentioned below.
 
• 
For Women in rural areas
 
 
GGL has supported the government initiative to provide natural gas supply in rural areas because the burning of wood 
and coal causes gas emissions, which have a negative impact on the health of all those coming into contact with those 
emissions, especially women which used them to cook food and causing adverse health conditions such as lung 
cancer, asthma etc..   
 
 
Under this initiative, GGL has gone the extra mile for implementation of PNG in rural areas of its operation and has 
covered more than 1,000 villages successfully.
 
• 
For Youth in rural areas
 
 
GGL has identified various locations in the state of Gujarat for implementation of CNG stations for vehicles and 
successfully has installed them. This activity helped the local youth by reducing unemployment issues.
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
The core belief of this principle is based on the idea that every human being has inherent rights that cannot be compromised in any 
way for the benefit of business. According to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, businesses are also held 
accountable for any violations of human rights and must take reasonable measures to prevent such violations from occurring as a 
result of their operations.
GGL social responsibility initiatives are focused on providing decent working conditions in all our offices, sites and other locations 
where the company operates, as well as ensuring the protection of all our stakeholders' human rights. GGL is committed towards 
continuous improvement and has begun taking steps to effectively incorporate human rights into its business operations.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
85
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Essential Indicators
Permanent 
879 
310 
35% 
879 
51 
6%
Other than Permanent 
31 
1 
4% 
27 
- 
-
Total Employee 
910 
311 
34% 
906 
51 
6%
Permanent 
118 
- 
- 
128 
6 
5%
Other than Permanent 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Total Workers 
118 
- 
- 
128 
6 
5%
FY 2021-22 Previous Financial Year
% (D / C)
Employees and workers who have been provided training on issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the following format:
Employees
Workers
1.
No. of employees / 
workers covered (D)
Total (C)
% (B/A)
FY 2022-23 Current Financial Year
No. of employees / 
workers covered (B)
Total (A)
Category
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
All wages are at par and more than applicable minimum wages.
*Non-executive members of the Board are paid sitting fees and out of pocket expenses for attending the meetings of the 
board. Sitting fees of government directors is deposited in government treasury.
** There are 3 KMP’s- MD, CFO & CS, MD is not paid any remuneration. Average remuneration of CFO & CS is disclosed 
as it is not possible to disclose median remuneration.
2.
3.
Employees
Workers
Permanent 
879 
- 
- 
879 
100% 
879 
- 
- 
879 
100%
Male 
828 
- 
- 
828 
100% 
830 
- 
- 
830 
100%
Female 
51 
- 
- 
51 
100% 
49 
- 
- 
49 
100%
Other than 
31 
- 
- 
31 
100% 
27 
- 
- 
27 
100% 
permanent
Male 
31 
- 
- 
31 
100% 
27 
- 
- 
27 
100%
Female 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Board of Directors (BoD)* 
5 
NA 
2 
NA
Key Managerial Personnel** 
2 
1,00,42,132 
- 
NA
Employees other than BoD and KMP 
859 
94,130 
51 
108,218
Workers 
112 
79,798 
6 
84,268
Permanent 
118 
- 
- 
118 
100% 
128 
- 
- 
128 
100%
Male 
112 
- 
- 
112 
100% 
122 
- 
- 
122 
100%
Female 
6 
- 
- 
6 
100% 
6 
- 
- 
6 
100%
Other than 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
permanent
Male 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Female 
- 
- 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
 
 
No. (B) 
% (B / A) 
No. (C) 
% (C / A) 
 
No. (E) 
% (E / D) 
No. (F) % (F / D)
FY 2021-22 (Previous Financial Year)
Female
More than 
Minimum Wage
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
Number
Total (A)
More than 
Minimum Wage
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
FY 2022-23 (Current Financial Year)
Male
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
Number
Total (A)
Category
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
86
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused 
or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
 Yes, in line with the Human rights policy, Grievance redressal committee is responsible for addressing human rights impacts, 
issues and grievances caused or contributed to by the business.
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
GGL has an open and approachable internal procedures and policy for dealing with and resolving any human rights-related 
issues. The company's Human rights policy and code of conduct aid in resolving complaints regarding any violations of human 
rights. Any violation of human rights is not tolerated at GGL.
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
GGL strives to avert harassment and discrimination in the workplace. It has a system and policy for resolving complaints and 
grievances. The Human Rights and Anti - Harassment Policies are designed to shield the complainant from unfavourable 
outcomes in discrimination and harassment situations.
GGL is dedicated to creating a pleasant environment where complaints are promptly and fairly resolved. This policy's goal is to 
promote a workplace free of complaints while also assisting the Company's concerned employees in enhancing their 
performance and productivity. Any grievances/ complaints are rightly communicated and steps are taken to address the same. 
There is stepwise mechanism in place for redressal of grievances mentioned under the human right policy.
We have implemented an anti - harassment policy at work in accordance with the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (the "Act") and Rules issued thereunder. 
GGL has outlined the processes for filing a complaint and the processes that are followed thereafter. GGL has established an 
internal investigation committee and inquiry committee to investigate concerns raised by the complainants.
To disclose actual or suspected frauds and violations of the company's code of conduct, ethical behavior and vigil mechanism 
policy, a whistleblower may do so in a number of different ways. 
The Whistleblower Policy outlines a detailed procedure for making disclosures, responding to concerns and investigating 
fraudulent activity. Additionally, it provides adequate protection to employees who disclose such fraudulent activities or 
unethical conduct.  
Link of Policies: https://www.gujaratgas.com/corporate-governance/brsrpolicies/
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
Yes, GGL encourages through the general contract terms that its vendors are complying with Laws and regulations and ethical 
business practices. 
Assessments for the year:
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
4.
5.
7.
8.
9.
6.
Sexual Harassment 
1 
1 
- 
- 
- 
-
Discrimination at workplace 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Child Labour 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Wages 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Other  related issues 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
FY 2021-22 Previous Financial Year
Remarks
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Filed during 
the year
Remarks
FY 2022-23 Current Financial Year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Filed during 
the year 
Child labour
Forced/involuntary labor
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
GGL internally monitors compliance for all relevant laws and policies pertaining to these issues 
in all its offices. GGL has implemented mechanisms by the way of relevant policies and 
committees to avoid instances of human rights violations.
% of plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
87
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 9 above.
There were no significant risks / concerns arising from the human rights assessments. GGL has an internal system to carry out 
audits with respect to Labour Laws and compliance with Human Rights requirements.
Leadership Indicators
1. Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints. 
 
No business processes were required to be modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights 
grievances/complaints
2. Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted. 
 
The Company follows strict adherence to all labor laws and human rights policies. No specific Due diligence exercise is 
conducted by the Company. 
3. Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
 
Yes, GGL has wheelchair facilities available at all the corporate offices.
4. Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above. 
 
We experienced zero instances of human rights violations by our value chain partners, including but not limited to sexual 
harassment, workplace discrimination, child labor, forced labor, involuntary labor, pay and other human rights related issues, 
accordingly no such corrective  action is undertaken.
10.
Sexual Harassment 
100%
Discrimination at workplace 
100%
Child Labour 
100%
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour 
100%
Wages 
100%
Others – please specify 
NA
% of value chain partners 
(by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
The principle urges organisations to explore and identify the potential environmental impacts arising out of their business 
operations and supply chain activities carried out in order to deliver and to address them with adequate mitigating measures. It also 
encourages organisations to find alternative ways of operating by causing fewer impacts to the environment that may cause less 
harm to the environment.
GGL has increased its efforts, attention and taking actions to preserve the environment. GGL has its HSE and QHSE policy to reflect 
the company's commitment towards the environment and to people through adherence to policy guidelines & complying with 
Laws & regulations.
The goal of these policies is to ensure that everyone in the organization is aware of the company's environmental responsibilities. It 
deals with managing biodiversity, water and waste, efficient utilization of resources, energy and emissions management and 
climate change.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
88
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Essential Indicators
Total electricity consumption (A) 
477,390.29 GJ 
484,640.72 GJ
Total fuel consumption (B) 
47,837.91 GJ 
43,100.70 GJ
Energy consumption through other sources (Renewable Energy) 
6.46 GJ 
9.95  GJ
Total energy consumption (A+B+C) 
525,234.66 GJ 
527,751.38 GJ
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover  
30.35 GJ / INR Crore 
 31.44 GJ / INR Crore
(Total energy consumption/ turnover in rupees)
Energy intensity (optional) –  
NA 
NA
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)  Surface water 
- 
-
(ii)  Groundwater 
62,774.10 
59,810.37
(iii)  Third party water 
12,543.49 
12,230.59
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water 
- 
-
(v)  Others 
- 
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v) 
75,317.59 
72,040.96
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres) 
75,317.59 
72,040.96
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover) 4.35 Kiloliter / INR Crore 4.29 Kiloliter / INR Crore 
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected  
NA 
NA
by the entity
FY 2021-22 
Previous Financial Year
FY 2021-22 
Previous Financial Year
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
 
 
 
 
(In Giga Joules)
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and Trade 
(PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been 
achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
Not Applicable, as GGL does not have any recognized sites/facilities as a Designated Consumer (DC) under Performance, 
Achieve & Trade scheme.
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
Considering that water is not used in the processes, nor it is discharged as industrial effluent as a result of the process, GGL does 
not have a Zero Liquid Discharge system. GGL Offices, City Gas Station & Compressed Natural Gas Stations only produce 
residential wastewater, which is disposed through the municipal or district sewer system, a soak pit, or gardening. No treatment 
is necessary for such a kind of water discharge.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
No, such independent assessment/evaluation/assurance is carried out by an external agency.
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format: 
(in Kilolitres)
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
No, such independent assessment/evaluation/assurance is carried out by an external agency.
1.
2.
4.
3.
FY 2022-23 
Current Financial Year
FY 2022-23 
Current Financial Year
Parameter
Parameter
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
89
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
NOx 
ppm 
Less than 50 ppm in each   
Less than 50 ppm in each 
 
 
case (DG set) 
case (DG set)
SOx 
ppm 
Less than 100 ppm in each  
Less than 100 ppm in each 
 
 
case (DG set) 
case (DG set)
Particulate matter (PM) 
mg/Nm3 
Less than 150 mg/Nm3 in each  
Less than 150 mg/Nm3 in each 
 
 
case (DG set) 
case (DG set)
Persistent organic pollutants (POP) 
ppm 
Nil 
Nil
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 
ppm 
Nil 
Nil
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) 
ppm 
Nil 
Nil
Others – please specify 
ppm 
Nil 
Nil
 
 
The primary sources of air pollution are monitored through authorised 
laboratory/agencies as per the guidelines of the Central and respective 
State Pollution Control Boards. 
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
Metric tonnes of  
2,910.13 MT 
2,700.01 MT
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) 
CO2 equivalent
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into  
Metric tonnes of  
94,151.97 MT 
95,581.92 MT
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) 
CO2 equivalent 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of  
Metric tonnes of  
5.61 MT / INR Crore  
5.85 MT / INR Crore 
turnover 
CO2 equivalent 
 
per Crore rupees 
 
of turnover 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) –   
NA 
NA
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity 
FY 2021-22 
Previous Financial Year
FY 2021-22 
Previous Financial Year
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Provide details of Green House Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following 
format:
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
Reduction of Natural Gas emission in Operational & Maintenance Activities:
GGL strives to lower the emissions of natural gas from its operations, either as part of a planned release or because of an 
unexpected release. The majority of these emissions are the result of unintentional releases brought on by third-party network 
damage, but certain emissions are the result of network failure itself. 
A smaller portion of these emissions are also the result of planned releases, which often occur during preventive maintenance 
or network / equipment commissioning activities.
GGL focuses on various educational programs, utility coordination and campaigns such as dial before dig (detailed below) for 
third parties working in the same area as GGL with an aim to reduce these emissions. 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
Fuel Gas emission is monitored for each equipment such as DG set as per Pollution Control Board norms. Environmental 
monitoring is done by independent Pollution Control Board /Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change approved 
parties – M/s ABC Techno Labs India Private Limited and M/s Ecoearth Technologies.
For Scope 1: Source of emission factors are referred from GHG protocol. For Scope 2: Emission factor for grid electricity is 
referred from Central Electricity Authority (CO2 Baseline database for Indian power sector - Version 18)
Weighted Average Emission Factor for Grid electricity (RES): 0.71
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
No, such independent assessment/evaluation/assurance is carried out by an external agency.
5.
6.
7.
FY 2022-23 
Current Financial Year
FY 2022-23 
Current Financial Year
Units
Units
Parameter
Parameter
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
90
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Apart from this, GGL undertakes a variety of actions/improvements to reduce emissions, some of which are listed below:
• 
Prompt emergency response to reported damage cases for prompt isolation of the damaged section.
• 
Isolation valves at regulator-defined distances to reduce emissions after isolation.
• 
Effective preventive maintenance plan and adherence to the same to reduce breakdown instances  
• 
An efficient commissioning procedure to reduce natural gas emissions, among other things.
GGL tracks natural gas emissions per 10,000 scm of gas purchased cumulatively on a monthly basis in comparison to the 
previous fiscal year.
Dial Before Dig Campaign
GGL educates and influences stakeholders such as local municipal authorities, other utilities, their contractors and their field 
staff (including heavy machinery entities like JCB, horizontal directional drilling (HDD) operators, etc.) who undertake digging 
and HDD activities as part of their laying or construction activity through this campaign. The campaign aims to raise awareness 
of the safety and environmental risks of natural gas release into the atmosphere as a result of damage to GGL's natural gas 
pipeline network during digging and HDD operations. Third parties are urged to contact GGL to confirm the location before 
beginning any digging / excavation / HDD activities to avoid causing damage to the natural gas pipeline network.
Promoting Natural Gas as Cleaner Environment Friendly fuel
PNG: GGL's business is the distribution of natural gas as a cleaner, more environmentally friendly fuel for domestic, industrial 
and commercial use. GGL supplies natural gas to industries via its pipeline infrastructure as a cleaner alternative fuel to polluting 
fuels such as coal. GGL by virtue of its Natural Gas sales to industrial consumers reduces the burning of approximately 12770 
Metric Tons of coal per day.
CNG: GGL is influencing automobile users in its operational areas to use compressed natural gas as a clean automotive fuel 
through various campaigns. GGL has made it a priority to expand CNG transportation and dispensing infrastructure and 
facilities. In FY 2022-23, 102 new CNG stations have been commissioned across GGL operational areas and 57 stations have 
been upgraded to increase capacity. CNG is a popular alternative fuel because of its clean burning characteristics and low 
carbon emission in air. Natural gas helps to reduce the environmental impact of vehicular emissions caused by the use of other 
polluting fuels such as petrol and diesel. GGL by virtue of its CNG sales reduces the consumption of approximately 2417 
kiloliters of petrol per day. 
GGL recognizes and understands the various global challenges and risks related to environmental degradation and climate 
change as a responsible organization. Building awareness about these challenges and risks among employees and the 
community is an effective way to address them. GGL made efforts to accomplish this through the following initiatives:
• 
With the goal of promoting CNG as the most preferred green fuel among potential 4 wheeler users, aggressive CNG 
marketing is being conducted by organizing CNG Car Melas 'CNG CARAVAN' across various locations in Gujarat in order to 
engage directly with the target audience. This initiative was also supported by advertisements in mass media outlets such as 
newspapers and radio stations, as well as a simultaneous campaign on social media platforms such as Google, Facebook, 
Instagram and YouTube. 
• 
Natural gas is promoted by GGL as a clean fuel for industrial and commercial purposes. GGL, as a responsible utility dealing in 
clean fuel, ensures the supply of Natural Gas as an environmentally friendly fuel, as well as the related pipeline network 
setup, while effectively managing any challenges in the shortest possible time.
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A) 
8.46 
11.82
E Waste (B) 
3.96 
4.20
Bio medical waste (C) 
- 
-
Construction and Demolition Waste (D) 
- 
-
Battery Waste (E) 
17.88 
7.85
Radio-active waste (F) 
- 
-
Hazardous waste. - Used Oil 
109.90 
91.94
Non-hazardous waste generated (Glass, Metal, Paper, etc. (H)  
257.97 
285.57
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
Total (A to H) (MT) 
398.17 
401.38
FY 2021-22 
Previous Financial Year
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
8.
FY 2022-23 
Current Financial Year
Parameter
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
91
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Category of waste 
 
(i) 
Recycled 
72.15 
66.46
(ii)  Re-used 
- 
-
(iii)  Other recovery operations 
- 
-
Total 
72.15 
66.46
Category of waste
(i)  Incineration 
- 
-
(ii)  Landfilling 
- 
-
(iii)  Other disposal operations 
235.71 
375.94
Total 
235.71 
375.94
FY 2021-22 
Previous Financial Year
FY 2021-22 
Previous Financial Year
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes)
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
No, such independent assessment/evaluation/assurance is carried out by an external agency.
FY 2022-23 
Current Financial Year
FY 2022-23 
Current Financial Year
Parameter
Parameter
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 
manage such wastes.
GGL is solely involved in services of distribution of Natural Gas through its network of pipelines designated as PNG and in 
compressed form for use in the transport sector designated as CNG. These operations generally do not have significant waste 
generation. 
However, GGL has established, implemented and maintained a system of proper Waste Management:
• 
to avoid, reduce or control (separately or in combination) the creation or discharge of any type of waste in order to reduce 
adverse environmental impacts
• 
to reuse, refurbishing, recycle and dispose the waste
• 
to segregate and handle the waste from generation to disposal stage effectively to comply with legal & statutory 
requirements 
• 
to protect the environment
Waste generated in the form of used batteries, electronic waste, used oil from equipment such as compressors at GGL are sent 
to pollution control board approved vendors for either recycling or environment friendly disposal.
All the emissions and waste generated by GGL are within the permissible limits of CPCB/SPCB.
9.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
92
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
1 
Dadra & Nagar Haveli 
 
GA
2 
Thane & Palghar GA
3 
Thane & Palghar GA
Environmental Impact Assessment, Environmental 
Management Plan, Risk Assessment & Disaster 
Management Plan for Natural Gas Distribution 
pipeline network in UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli i.e.: 
1. Dapada-Khanvel connectivity - 13.65 kms. 
2. Khanvel- Kherdi connectivity - 7. 29 kms. 
3. Surangi-Kherdi connectivity- 5.8 kms
Environmental Impact Assessment, Environmental 
Management Plan, Risk Assessment & Disaster 
Management Plan for Natural Gas Distribution 
Pipeline Network with associated facilities from 
Ambadi Naka at Bhiwadi Taluka, Thane District to 
Village Virar, Taluka Vasai, District Palghar of 
Maharashtra State (i.e., called Virar Spur Line) 
including Spur lines at Nala Sopara, Vasai, Kharpada, 
Sativali covering total length approx. 58.345 km 
with Diameters 6”/8”/12"
Environmental Impact Assessment, Environmental 
Management Plan, Risk Assessment & Disaster 
Management Plan for Dahanu Taluka Pipeline 
Network: For total length 60 Kms (Steel Pipeline: 
Length:45.77 kms & 8"/12" Diameters; Medium-
density polyethylene (MDPE) Pipeline: Length 
14.228 Kms with 125 MM, 90MM, 63 MM 
diameter) with associated facilities
Natural Gas distribution network by MDPE pipeline by GGL at UT of 
DNH - Environmental Clearance-reg.; File No.: J-11011/7/2019-IA-
II(I), Issued by GOI-MEF&CC
Natural Gas Distribution pipeline Network with associated facilities 
from Ambadi Naka at Bhiwadi Taluka, Thane District to Village Virar, 
Taluka Vasai, District Palghar of Maharashtra State (i.e. called Virar  
Spur Line) including Spur lines at Nala Sopara, Vasai, Kharpada, 
Sativali covering total length approx. 58.345 km with Diameters 
6”/8”/12" - EC No. EC22A027MH171444 Dated 29.07.2022
Dahanu Taluka Pipeline Network: For total length 60 Kms (Steel 
Pipeline: Length:45.77 kms & 8"/12" Dia; MDPE Pipeline: Length 
14.228 Kms with 125 MM, 90MM, 63 MM dia) with associated 
facilities - EC No. EC22A027MH117775 Dated: 21.06.2022
2006
2006
2006
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
EIA carried 
out in Aug 
2019 
(Project under 
progress 
during current 
year)
EIA carried 
out in Aug 
2019
(Project under 
progress 
during current 
year)
EIA carried 
out in Oct 
2020
(Project under 
progress 
during current 
year)
Yes, Public 
hearing was 
held
Yes, Public 
hearing was 
held
Yes, Public 
hearing was 
held
Not 
Available
Not 
Available
Not 
Available
Whether the conditions 
of environmental 
approval / clearance are 
being complied with? 
(Y/N) If no, the reasons 
thereof and corrective 
action taken, if any.
Results 
communicated 
in public 
domain 
(Yes/No)
Relevant 
Web link
If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where 
environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year:
10.
11
Type of operations
Date
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external 
agency 
(Yes/No)
Sr.No.
Name and brief details of project
Location of 
operations/offices
EIA 
Notification 
No.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
93
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act 
and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
Yes, GGL is compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water (Prevention and 
Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act. There are no such incidences of non-compliances with 
such Laws & Regulations reported during the current year.
Corrective action 
taken, if any
Any fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulatory agencies such as pollution 
control boards or by courts
Provide details of 
the non-compliance
Specify the law / regulation / 
guidelines which was not 
complied with
Sr.No.
12.
Leadership Indicators
From renewable sources 
Total electricity consumption (A)  
6.46 GJ 
9.95 GJ
Total fuel consumption (B)  
- 
-
Energy consumption through other sources (C) 
- 
-
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)  
6.46 GJ 
9.95 GJ
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)  
477,390.29 GJ 
484,640.72 GJ
Total fuel consumption (E)  
47,837.91 GJ 
43,100.70 GJ
Energy consumption through other sources (F)  
 
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)  
525,234.66 GJ 
527,751.38 GJ
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres) 
i) To Surface water 
 
- No treatment 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(ii) To Groundwater 
 
- No treatment 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(iii) To Seawater 
 
- No treatment 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(iv) Sent to third-parties 
 
- No treatment 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(v) Others 
 
- No treatment 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
 
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
Considering that water is not used in the processes, nor it is 
discharged as industrial effluent as a result of the process, GGL 
does not have a Zero Liquid Discharge system. GGL Offices, City 
Gas Station & Compressed Natural Gas Stations only produce 
residential wastewater, which is disposed through the municipal or 
district sewer system, a soak pit, or gardening. No treatment is 
necessary for such a kind of water discharge.
FY 2021-22 
Previous Financial Year
FY 2021-22 
Previous Financial Year
Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable sources, 
in the following format: 
Provide the following details related to water discharged: 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
No, such independent assessment/evaluation/assurance is carried out by an external agency.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
No, such independent assessment/evaluation/assurance is carried out by an external agency.
1.
2.
FY 2022-23 
Current Financial Year
FY 2022-23 
Current Financial Year
Parameter
Parameter
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
94
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres): 
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
(i)  Name of the area : 
 
• 
Corporate office of Parimal, GSFC & Avdesh
 
• 
Offices, CNG & CGS stations of Dadra & Nagar Haveli (DNH), Gandhinagar, Kutch, Jalore, Sirohi, Ujjain, Dewas, Indore, 
Ratlam, Jhabua, Banswara, Dungarpur, Amritsar, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Mansa, Ferozepur, 
Faridkot, Sri Muktsar Sahib.
 
• 
Warehouses in Silvasa, Gandhinagar, Amritsar, Bathinda, Sirsa, Ratlam, Sirohi.
(ii) Nature of operations: Corporate office, Site offices, CNG & CGD stations & Warehousing Operations
(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:  
(in Kilolitres)
3.
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres) 
(i)  Surface water  
- 
-
(ii)  Groundwater  
6,774.63 
4,947.72
(iii)  Third party water  
1,027.66 
530.46
(iv)  Seawater / desalinated water  
- 
-
(v)  Others  
- 
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)  
7,802.29 
5,478.18
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)  
7,802.29 
5,478.18
Water intensity per rupee of turnover  
0.45 Kiloliter / INR Crore 
0.33 Kiloliter / INR Crore 
(Water consumed / turnover) 
Water intensity (optional) –  
- 
-
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity 
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres) 
i)  
Into Surface water 
 
- No treatment 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(ii)  Into Groundwater 
 
- No treatment 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(iii)  Into Seawater 
 
- No treatment 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(iv)  Sent to third-parties 
 
- No treatment 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(v)  Others 
 
- No treatment 
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
Total water discharged (in kilolitres) 
FY 2021-22 
Previous Financial Year
FY 2022-23 
Current Financial Year
Parameter
Considering that water is not used in the processes, nor it is 
discharged as industrial effluent as a result of the process, GGL 
does not have a Zero Liquid Discharge system. GGL Offices, City 
Gas Station & Compressed Natural Gas Stations only produce 
residential wastewater, which is disposed through the municipal 
or district sewer system, a soak pit, or gardening. No treatment 
is necessary for such  kind of water discharge.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
No, such independent assessment/evaluation/assurance is carried out by an external agency.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
95
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Total Scope 3 emissions  
 Metric tonnes 
17,341.85 
16,598.49
(Break-up of the GHG into  
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)  
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover  Metric tonnes per  
1.00  MT / INR Crore  
0.99 MT / INR Crore 
 
Crore rupees of turnover
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) –   
NA 
NA
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity 
FY 2021-22 
Previous Financial Year
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
4.
FY 2022-23 
Current Financial Year
Units
Parameter
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and 
remediation activities. 
Environmental Impact Assessment, Environmental Management Plan, Risk Assessment & Disaster Management Plan for 
Natural Gas Distribution pipeline network in UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Virar Pipeline & Dahanu pipeline networks:
There are no direct or indirect biological impacts of high significance rating related to GGL project, however direct or indirect 
biological impacts of moderate significance along with their prevention and remediation actions are explained below:
1. Removal of vegetation along the pipeline ROU
2. Removal of orchards along the Pipeline ROU
Prevention & Remediation Activities related to Environmental Impact
Proposed pipeline will be laid along the existing road RoW under Public Works Department authority and will not pass through 
any dense forest area which is conducive for the existence of significant wildlife in such an area. As far as possible, minimum 
numbers of trees will be cut while laying pipeline. Removing vegetation outside ROU will be strictly prohibited. 10 times the 
number of trees for every tree cut shall be planted in ROU as per guidelines the Ministry of Environment & Forests.
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the 
same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format: 
For Scope 3: Source of emission factors are referred from GHG protocol. 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
No, such independent assessment/evaluation/assurance is carried out by an external agency.
5.
6.
Initiative 
undertaken 
1. 
All GGL hired 
MCV now run 
on CNG 
instead of 
Diesel
2. 
Procuring & 
Use of Gas 
based CNG 
compressor 
Approximately 700 CNG transportation vehicles 
(MCV) hired from contractors for transporting 
CNG from mother to daughter-DB stations. 
These were previously being run on Diesel and 
which are now being mandatorily run on less 
polluting fuel i.e. CNG
Gas based CNG compressors are being procured 
instead of electricity run compressors which 
helps to establish CNG stations at locations with 
less or no electrical supply
By implementing this initiative GGL has replaced 
more than 4000 Kilolitres of Diesel fuel with less 
polluting fuel CNG resulting in reduced SOX, NOX, 
PM, emissions and carbon emission as well.
This benefits the environment, as the emissions 
from operating these compressors are lesser 
compared to the emissions from correspondingly 
proportionate amounts of electricity generated 
using coal and other polluting agents.
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, 
may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative 
Sr.No.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
96
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
3. 
Setting up 
LNG/LCNG 
Stations
4. 
Hydrogen 
Blending with 
Natural Gas 
for CGD:
5. 
Electrical 
Vehicle 
Charging 
Facility at 
GGL CNG 
Station
LNG/LCNG Station Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) is 
a natural gas, predominantly methane (CH4) that 
has been liquefied for ease of storage and 
transportation. LNG is pressurized & re-gasified 
through ambient vaporizers for dispensing to 
customer vehicles as an automotive fuel and 
piped natural gas to domestic, commercial & 
industrial consumers on priority in areas far away 
from gas supply point of transportation pipeline.
GGL & NTPC signed an agreement and now 
commissioned the pilot project with 5% H2 
blending in Natural Gas after due approval from 
the regulator. NTPC produces and supplies the 
required green Hydrogen which is blended with 
Natural Gas through Blending skid and GGL 
distributes this blended gas at the NTPC 
townships in Kawas, Hazira. GGL & NTPC teams 
carried out detailed testing by setting up a testing 
riser to ensure homogeneity of blended mixture. 
Further, GGL and NTPC will be presenting a 
proposal to the regulator for increasing H2 
concentration in blended gas as per original plan.
As a part of a Pilot Project and to promote use of 
electric vehicles, GGL in collaboration with TPCL 
has set up electrical charging facilities at their 
operating COCO CNG Station at Kevadia location 
(near to Statue of Unity) in Narmada GA. The 
Installed charger having capacity of 50 KW fast 
Charging facility. The charger also supports AC 
and DC Fast Charging facilities.
• Use of LNG/LCNG as a product reduces the 
electrical power consumption compared to use 
of variable inlet CNG compressors Reduced 
power consumption is ~0.12 Kwh/Kg, which 
results in energy saving of ~2000 Kwh/Day 
considering sale of 16000 Kg/Day at operating 
LNG/LCNG Stations.
• With two (2) operational LCNG stations, the 
CNG transport through vehicles is reduced by 
approximately 3000 km/day at Thane GA 
helping reduce the number of trips of MCV and 
consequently the fuel consumption.     
Hydrogen is not a greenhouse gas (GHG), nor 
does it produce GHGs when burned, making it a 
potential substitute for reducing the carbon 
intensity or pollution of some energy or fuel 
applications. Hydrogen is relevant to GGL through 
its use as a fuel when blended with natural gas. 
GGL has a unique opportunity to leverage its 
integrated natural gas business to explore 
applications for hydrogen as part of its initiative to 
reduce GHG emissions.
This initiative will reinforce the Company’s 
commitment towards sustainability and clean 
and efficient mobility.
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link. 
In accordance with the PNGRB ERDMP regulations, 2010, amended in 2020, GGL has created ERDMP documents for each of 
its operational geographic areas, which cover scenarios where undesirable events can be foreseen or suspected. This is carried 
out to make GGL ready to respond appropriately to any unforeseen and unintentional accidents. The PNGRB empaneled Third 
Party Agency has audited and certified these documents and GGL’s Board of Directors has duly approved them. In accordance 
with the certification requirements specified by PNGRB, GGL conducted the certification audit of ERDMP for 8 Geographic 
Areas in FY 2022-23.
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard 
GGL is engaged in “Natural Gas” distribution to Domestic, Commercial, Industrial and Transport Consumers. Natural Gas being 
inherently a cleaner fuel is an environmental friendly fuel. 
GGL products do not have any major adverse environmental impacts, however GGL has identified and assessed Environmental 
aspects related to each of its significant business activities / processes – pipeline construction, maintenance, natural gas 
compression etc. Further, GGL has taken adequate mitigation measures to minimize residual risks to as low as reasonably 
practicable or acceptable levels.
7.
8.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
97
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts. 
GGL has established SOP on Contractor Performance Assessment. The objective is to monitor the performance of Contractors 
/ Service providers in terms of compliance with all applicable GGL policies, processes, standards, procedures, guidelines and 
other Contractual obligations related to Project/task delivery & HSE. Contractor’s/Service provider’s performance data are 
captured on a monthly basis as per CPAR (Contractor Performance Assessment Report) format. 
• 
Business Performance – 70% Weightage
• 
Contract Management – 5% Weightage
• 
Quality Control – 5% Weightage
• 
HSE Compliance – 10% Weightage
• 
GGL Lifesaver Compliance – 5% Weightage
• 
Key Performance – 5% Weightage
9.
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, 
should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
This principle guides that it is the organisation’s duty to be transparent & 
responsible while being engaged in advocacy of any public policy. 
Being a government company GGL takes part in public policy advocacy and it 
ensures that its policy advocacy positions promote fair competition, business 
growth and respect for human rights.
a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations. 
 
In FY 2022-23, GGL was part of 2 National trade and industry chambers/ associations which are given below.
b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such a body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based 
on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
1.
2.
1. 
Association of CGD entities (ACE) 
National
2. 
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). 
National
Name of the trade and 
industry chambers/ associations
Brief of the case
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
Corrective action taken
Sr.No.
Name of authority
There have been no incidents of anti-competitive conduct, accordingly there are no issues that required corrective actions.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
98
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
1. 
Advocacy on MoPNG guidelines for 
Domestic gas allocation
Meeting/Open 
Forum/Email
No
NA
-
Public policy advocated
Sr.No.
Leadership Indicators
Provide details of public policy positions advocated by the entity
Method 
resorted 
for such 
advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in 
public 
domain?
Frequency of 
Review by Board 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly / 
Others – please 
specify)
Web Link, 
if available
2 
(Determination of Natural Gas 
Pipeline Tariff) Amendment 
Regulations, 2023 and Computation 
of Unified Tariff (UFT) – PNGRB 
Meeting/Open 
Forum/Email
No
NA
-
3 
Advocacy on Kirit Parikh committee 
recommendation on Domestic gas 
pricing mechanism
Meeting/Open 
Forum/Email
No
NA
-
4 
(Technical Standards and 
Specifications including Safety 
Standards for dispensing of 
Automotive Fuels) Amendment 
Regulations, 2023.
Meeting/Open 
Forum/Email
Yes
NA
5 
 (Authorizing Entities to Lay, Build, 
Operate or Expand City or Local 
Natural Gas Distribution Networks) 
Amendment Regulations, 2023”.
Meeting/Open 
Forum/Email
Yes
NA
6 
Draft (Hydrogen Blending with 
Natural gas) Guidelines, 2022.
Meeting/Open 
Forum/Email
No
NA
-
7 
Draft revision - OISD-STD-226 
(Cross Country Natural Gas Pipelines 
and City Gas Distribution Networks)
Meeting/Open 
Forum/Email
No
NA
-
8 
Draft guideline on CBG injection
Meeting/Open 
Forum/Email
No
NA
-
9 
Advocacy to MoPNG for amendments 
proposed in PNGRB Act
Meeting/Open 
Forum/Email
No
NA
-
10 
Force Majeure extension on account 
of Covid pandemic for achievement 
of MWP targets in various CGD 
license areas
Meeting/Open 
Forum/Email
No
NA
-
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Section 135 of The Companies Act, 2013, on corporate social responsibility which asks for a specific attention on disadvantaged, 
vulnerable and marginalized populations, serves as the foundation for this Principle.
GGL tries to address the imbalance generated by unequal distribution of economic resources in society. 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
99
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Essential Indicators
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year.
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by 
your entity, in the following format:
Not applicable, GGL does not have any projects that involve Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R).
1.
2.
1. Social Economic Impact assessment has 
been carried out for projects in ecological and 
social sensitive areas under Environmental 
Impact Assessment, Environmental 
Management Plan, Risk Assessment & 
Disaster Management Plan for Natural Gas 
Distribution pipeline network in UT of Dadra 
& Nagar Haveli i.e.: 
 
i. Dapada-Khanvel connectivity - 13.65 kms; 
 
ii. Khanvel- Kherdi connectivity - 7. 29 kms; 
 
iii. Surangi-Kherdi connectivity- 5.8 kms
2. Natural Gas Distribution pipeline Network 
with associated facilities from Ambadi Naka 
at Bhiwadi Taluka, Thane District to Village 
Virar, Taluka Vasai, District Palghar of 
Maharashtra State (i.e. called Virar Spur Line) 
including Spur lines at Nala Sopara, Vasai, 
Kharpada, Sativali covering total length 
approx. 58.345 km with Diameters 6”/8”/12"
3. Dahanu Taluka Pipeline Network: For total 
length of 60 Kms (Steel Pipeline: Length: 
45.77 kms & 8"/12" Diameter; MDPE Pipeline: 
Length 14.228 Kms with 125 MM, 90MM, 
63 MM diameter) with associated facilities.
4. Dhanvantri Covid Hospital – A Government 
of Gujarat Initiative
5. Purchase and deployment of PSA Oxygen 
Plants in Gujarat in GMERS operated 
Government Hospitals
6. Gas supply to Crematoriums in GGL’s 
operating areas  
 
NA 
NA 
Yes 
No 
-----
 
NA 
NA 
Yes 
No 
-
 
NA 
NA 
Yes 
No 
-
 
NA 
NA 
Yes 
Yes  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NA 
NA 
Yes 
Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NA 
NA 
Yes 
Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name and brief details of project
Relevant 
Web link
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external 
agency 
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated 
in public 
domain 
(Yes/No)
Date of 
notification
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Name of 
Project for which 
R&R is ongoing
State
Sr.No.
District
No. of Project 
Affected Families 
(PAFs)
No. of Project 
Affected Families 
(PAFs)
Amounts paid to 
PAFs in the FY 
(In INR)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
100
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
Community stakeholders may use any of the available channels of communication to raise grievances. As a company that 
values social responsibility, GGL has been engaged with various CSR initiatives that benefit the communities. These initiatives 
have covered a broad range of areas, including health, education, women's empowerment, the development of vocational skills, 
environmental protection and hygiene. To keep a careful eye on any complaints and, if necessary, resolve them, GGL makes sure 
that its projects are regularly monitored, evaluated and impact assessments would be carried out as per regulatory 
requirements. 
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
3.
4.
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers 
49% 
47%
Sourced directly from within the district and neighboring districts 
- 
-
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Leadership Indicators
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments  
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
1.
Natural Gas Distribution pipeline network in UT of Dadra & 
Nagar Haveli  i.e.: 
1. Dapada-Khanvel connectivity - 13.65 kms; 
2. Khanvel- Kherdi connectivity - 7. 29 kms; 
3. Surangi-Kherdi connectivity- 5.8 kms
The following are the direct or indirect social economic 
impacts of high and moderate significance, as well as the 
prevention and remediation actions:
A. Economic implication of loss of seasonal crops & 
plantations along pipeline ROU 
B. Limited Human habitation effected since no major 
habitation to exist within 50m of the ROU.
Virar Spur Line including Spur lines at Nala Sopara, Vasai, 
Kharpada, Sativali covering total length approx. 58.345 km 
with Diameters 6”/8”/12"
Direct or Indirect Social Economic impacts of high & moderate 
significance as well as their prevention and remediation 
actions as below:
A. Economic implication of loss of seasonal crops & 
plantations which is close to pipeline ROU 
B. Limited Human habitation effected since no major 
habitation to exist  within 50m of the ROU
Dahanu Taluka Pipeline Network: For total length 60 Kms 
(Steel Pipeline: Length:45.77 kms & 8"/12" Dia; MDPE 
Pipeline: Length 14.228 Kms with 125 MM, 90MM, 63 MM 
dia) with associated facilities
Direct or Indirect Social Economic impacts of high & moderate 
significance along with their prevention and remediation 
actions as below:
1. Economic implication of loss of seasonal crops and 
plantations along pipeline ROU 
2. Limited Human habitation effected since no major 
habitation to exist within 50m of the ROU 
• 
Caution exercised to prevent disrupting existing 
infrastructure along the pipeline path, such as telephone 
and electricity cables, water pipes, etc.
 • Payment for compensation acquisition of land for laying 
the pipeline as per Petroleum & Minerals Pipeline Act, 1962 
(Right of User in Land).  
GGL will contribute a minimum of 1% of the estimated cost 
(Rs.65 lacs) to the public’s socioeconomic development. 
These activities consist of:
• 
First aid facilities and firefighting equipment in village 
schools
• 
Drinking water facilities at villages in project area
• 
Providing toilets in villages - Swachh Bharat abhiyan
• 
Health checkup camp in schools/ villages
• 
Community plantation.
GGL will contribute a minimum of 1% of the proposed cost to 
the public’s socioeconomic development. These activities 
consist of:
• 
Renovations to schools include the installation of solar 
lighting, RO water and environment friendly LED bulbs, 
First aid facilities, Improvements to restroom amenities
• 
Health checkup camps at 7 villages in Dahanu taluka of 
Palghar district (Estimated budget - 10 lacs)
• 
Community plantation in the school campus and public 
places of villages (Estimated budget - 10 lacs)
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective Action taken
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
101
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies:
(a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No). 
 
GGL being a Government Company is required to follow transparent and competitive bidding process for selecting the 
vendors and hence, no preference can be given to suppliers comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups. 
(b) From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
 
Not applicable, as GGL procures goods based on the vendor selection policy through tenders. 
(c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
 
 Not Applicable, as stated in 3(a) and 3(b) above.
2.
3.
1 
Gujarat
2 
In Narmada District:
GGL operated a mobile health screening van from August 2019 until 
July 2022. It offered medical services for preventative health care at a 
total project cost of Rs. 1.74 Cr., including recurring expenses. The 
project provided benefits to 26,401 patients.
In Narmada District:
GGL offers a free pipeline gas connection and free gas supply to a 
district administration that operates  kitchens which serve free meals 
to the underprivileged, orphans and individuals in need. These Kitchens 
are helping feed approximately 150 people a day.
In Narmada District:
GGL management has approved free gas distribution to Crematoriums 
in the district.
In Dahod District:
GGL management has approved free gas distribution to Crematoriums 
in the district.
Rs. 1.98 lakhs (F.Y. 22-23) + 
Rs. 7.64 lakhs (FY 2021-22)
Rs. 0.85 lakhs (F.Y. 22-23) + 
Rs. 1 lakhs ( FY 2021-22)
Rs 645.22 Lakh in FY 2022-23
Rs. 605 Lakh in FY 2021 -22
Gas supply to crematoriums in 
operational areas of Gujarat Gas
State
Sr.No.
Aspirational District
Amount Spent (in Rs)
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the 
current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes 
wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
1. 
Trademarks  
Owned 
No 
NA
There were no such disputes during the year 2022-23.
4.
5.
Intellectual Property based 
on traditional Knowledge
Owned/ Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Name of authority
Sr.No.
Benefit shared 
(Yes/ No)
Brief of the case
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
Corrective action taken
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
102
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
Gujarat Gas consumers (PNG and CNG) can use several communication modes to register their grievances or complaints and 
provide suggestions concerning services provided by GGL in the areas of its operations. 
Consumers are offered a multichannel experience for submitting complaints or sharing feedback such as Customer Care 
Centers, Centralized Customer Call Centers, walk-in centers at each geographical area, website, the mobile application, e-mails, 
Government portals such as Integrated Grievance Redressal Mechanism (INGRAM), Centralized Public Grievance Redress and 
Monitoring System (CPGRAM), State Wide Attention on Grievances through Application of Technology (SWAGAT) and Social 
Media handles (Twitter, Facebook etc.).
The team responds and resolves the issue in accordance with the company's SOP(s), guidelines and complaint resolution 
process to ensure that the consumers’ grievances are being resolved and their feedback or suggestions are being considered as 
appropriate.
* No breakup of marginalised & vulnerable communities is available at present.
6.
1 
Gas Distribution to Crematoriums: Gas supply 
to crematoriums across operational areas of 
Gujarat Gas across different districts of Gujarat. 
 
(Rs. 645.22 lakh in FY 2022 -23)
2 
One Gujarat One Dialysis Programme - 
purchase of 90 dialysis machines for  30 Taluka 
level centers in Gujarat
 
(Rs. 648 lakh. in FY 2022 -23)
3 
Robotic Surgery Systems for Cardio Thoracic 
and Vascular Surgery - for performing robotic 
assisted minimal invasive complex cardiac surgery
 
(Rs. 600 lakh. in FY 2022 – 23)
4 
Paperless ICU Set up - paperless (digitalization) 
ICU set up of total 38 beds
 
(Rs. 11.35 lakh in FY 2022 – 23)
5 
Nodhara No Aadhar Project - Gas connection & 
gas supply for Nodhara No Aadhar Project run by 
Narmada District Administration
 
(Rs. 0.85 lakh in FY 2022 -23)
6 
Mobile Health Screening Van - Reimbursement 
of operational expenses of health screening van 
operating in Narmada District
 
(Rs. 1.98 lakh in FY 2022 -23)
7 
Learning by Doing - An experiment based learning 
programme in science and math at 10 government 
schools in rural areas of Morbi 
 
(Rs. 12 lakh in FY 2022 – 23)
Benefiting the environment 
and community at large.
6380 nos. of persons 
benefitted from Mid Oct. 
2022 – March 2023
Benefitting the community at 
large
Benefitting the community at 
large
Benefitting the community at 
large
Benefitting the community at 
large
Benefitting the community at 
large
Benefits to the Community as a 
whole. GGL is unable to 
specifically quantify the benefits.
Benefits to the Community as a 
whole.
Benefits to the Community as a 
whole.
Benefits to the Community as a 
whole.
Benefits to the Community as a 
whole.
Benefits to the Community as a 
whole.
Benefits to the Community as a 
whole.
CSR Project
Sr.No.
No. of persons benefited 
from CSR Projects *
% of beneficiaries from 
vulnerable and marginalized 
groups
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
This Principle relates to the concept that the primary objective of a business is to create wealth by delivering 
high-quality goods or providing services to the customer base and keeping them satisfied.
GGL understands its responsibility to cater the needs of its customers by delivering its product & services in 
the best possible manner. GGL has a system in place for engaging with the customers for raising its concerns 
and providing feedbacks and suggestions.
1.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
103
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
2.
3.
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal
100%
100%
Not applicable, considering the nature of the Company’s 
operations.
As a percentage to total turnover
Data privacy 
- 
- 
Nil 
- 
- 
Nil
Advertising 
- 
- 
Nil 
- 
- 
Nil
Cyber-security 
2 
- 
 
- 
- 
Nil
Delivery of essential  
- 
- 
Nil 
- 
- 
Nil
services
Restrictive Trade  
- 
- 
Nil 
- 
- 
Nil
Practices
Unfair Trade Practices 
- 
- 
Nil 
- 
- 
Nil
Other  
161,223 
8,239 
 
154,780 
564 
(Consumer Complaints)
FY 2021-22 Previous Financial Year
Remarks
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the 
year
Remarks
FY 2022-23 Current Financial Year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the 
year
Complaint received 
for fake website 
created by scammers
Complaints include 
issues like delay in gas 
connection, improper 
billing, wrong 
meter reading etc.
Complaints include 
issues like delay in gas 
connection, improper 
billing, wrong meter 
reading etc.
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a 
web-link of the policy.
Yes, GGL has a policy on Information Security which is in accordance with our objective to establish and enhance our 
preparedness for cyber security and reducing our exposure to information security related risks.
Link to policy : https://www.gujaratgas.com/corporate-governance/brsrpolicies/
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of Consumers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / 
action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
GGL has started displaying warning Pop-Ups on its website in an effort to raise customer awareness and protect consumers 
from fake websites and payment links from the scammers.
GGL has also bought similar domain names to avoid creation of fake look-alike websites by scammers.
4.
5.
6.
Voluntary recalls
Forced recalls
GGL distributes gas through pipelines, accordingly product recall disclosure is not applicable. 
Number
Reasons for recall
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
104
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Leadership Indicators
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if 
available).
GGLWebsite: https://www.gujaratgas.com
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
GGL educates Consumers on proper and safe PNG handling. Customer awareness is done continuously from first interaction 
with Direct Marketing Agent (DMA), registration, conversion and thereafter through awareness sessions, Welcome mail, SMS 
updates, radio spots, Customer Service/Fire & Safety Camps, leaflet distribution and digital marketing.
To inform Consumers about safe and responsible usage GGL distributes pamphlets at CNG stations, including installation of 
banners and hoardings at such stations.
GGL endevours to inform prospective and existing consumers about safe usage of products that it delivers to consumers. A 
variety of safety awareness programs, campaigns, leaflet distribution and digital marketing activities are carried out. For 
Industrial units, guidelines are in place for safe installations within the customer premise and customers have to submit 
certificates from PNGRB approved vendors for safety. Emergency numbers are displayed at all the gas installations of all 
customers.
During the current year FY 2022-23, more than 600 direct safety awareness sessions were held by GGL staff members for 
existing and new consumers, villages, societies, schools and the general public
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
Yes, GGL informs its end consumers in case of any supply disruption, through messages to the impacted consumers.
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? 
(Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer 
satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or 
the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
Yes, GGL displays product information in accordance with Petroleum & Natural Gas Regulatory Board guidelines. Additionally, 
during the Diwali festival, safety advisories are printed in all local newspapers. Every year, an independent agency conducts a 
customer satisfaction study for all GGL's operating territories.
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
(a) Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact
 
The Company had not noted any known security incidents in FY 2022–23 that led to data breaches of any of the 
stakeholders.
 
The Information Security & data privacy policy is robust. GGL takes data privacy risks and concerns into account at every 
stage of our business operations. 
(b) Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of Consumers
 
No such incidences of data breach have been identified which involved the disclosure of stakeholder information. 
 
GGL, manages customer personal data with utmost care and security. We also ensure that the data is processed only for 
the specific & legitimate business objectives. 
For, Gujarat Gas Limited
Milind Torawane, IAS
Managing Director 
Date: 18th July, 2023
Place: Gandhinagar
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Standalone
Financial
Statements
105
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
REPORT OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA
COMMENTS OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA UNDER SECTION 143(6)(b) OF THE 
COMPANIES ACT, 2013 ON THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF GUJARAT GAS LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 
31 MARCH  2023
The preparation of standalone financial statements of Gujarat Gas Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023 in accordance with 
the financial reporting framework prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 (Act) is the responsibility of the Management of the 
Company. The Statutory Auditors appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India under Section 139(5) of the Act are 
responsible for expressing opinion on the financial statements under Section 143 of the Act based on independent audit in 
accordance with the standards on auditing prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act. This is stated to have been done by them 
vide their Audit Report dated 10 May 2023.
I, on behalf of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, have conducted a supplementary audit of the standalone financial 
statements of Gujarat Gas Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023 under Section 143(6)(a) of the Act. This supplementary audit 
has been carried out independently without access to the working papers of the Statutory Auditors and is limited primarily to 
inquiries of the Statutory Auditors and Company personnel and a selective examination of some of the accounting records.
On the basis of my supplementary audit nothing significant has come to my knowledge which would give rise to any comment upon 
or supplement to Statutory Auditors' report under Section 143(6)(b) of the Act.
For and on behalf of the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India
(Vijay N. Kothari)
Accountant General (Audit-II), Gujarat
Place: Ahmedabad
Date: 10-07-2023
106
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
To 
The Members of Gujarat Gas Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Standalone Financial Statements of Gujarat Gas Limited (“the Company”), which comprise the 
Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2023, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the Statement of 
Changes in Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended on that date, and notes to the Standalone Financial 
Statements, including a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (herein after referred to as 
“the Standalone Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone Financial 
Statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as “the  Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the  Indian Accounting  Standards prescribed under  section 133  of the Act read with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended, (hereinafter referred to as “Ind AS”) and other accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2023, and its profit, total comprehensive 
income, changes in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (hereinafter referred 
to as “SAs”) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the 
Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (hereinafter referred to as 
“ICAI”) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have 
determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
107
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sr. No.
Key Audit Matter
Auditor’s Response
 
2 
Contingent Liabilities
 
 
Contingent Liabilities are for ongoing litigations 
and claims with various authorities and third 
parties. These relate to direct tax, indirect tax, 
claims and legal proceedings.
 
 
Contingent liabilities are considered as key audit 
matters as the amount involved is significant and it 
also involves significant management judgement 
to determine possible outcome and future cash 
outflows of these disputes. 
Principal audit procedure :
Our approach was a combination of test of internal controls, 
analytical and substantive procedures which included the 
following:
- Evaluated the design of internal control
- For evaluation of operative effectiveness of internal control:
 • Verified samples of gas sales invoices with relevant 
agreements executed with the customers, accuracy of 
pricing, consumption quantity, tax amount of invoices of 
major types of customers.
 • Visited site to understand actual operations
- Performed analytical procedures to verify number of bills 
generated during the year for each major type of customers as 
per their respective billing cycle 
- On sample basis, verified:
 • Up-dation of Daily Contracted Quantity of gas of Industrial 
customers in the billing system.
 • Up-dation of prices of gas for all major types of customers in 
the billing system.
 • Sales invoices 
- Verified subsequent realisation of invoices generated for the 
month of March 2023. 
- Evaluated the appropriateness of accounting policies, related 
disclosure made and overall presentation in the Standalone 
Financial Statements in terms of Ind AS 115.
Principal audit procedure:
- Obtained details of disputed claims as on March 31, 2023 from 
the management. 
- Discussed with the management about the significant 
judgment considered in determining possible outcome and 
future cash outflows of these disputes. 
- Verified relevant documents related to disputes.
- Evaluated the appropriateness of accounting policies, related 
disclosure made and overall presentation in the Standalone 
Financial Statements in terms of Ind AS 37.
108
 
1 
Revenue recognition 
 
 
The Company is in the business of distribution of 
natural gas.  The Company has major types of 
customers such as industrial, oil marketing 
companies, commercial, non-commercial, 
domestic and CNG.  
 
 
Revenue from sale of natural gas is considered as 
key audit matter as there is a risk of accuracy of 
recognition and measurement of gas sales in the 
Standalone Financial Statements considering 
following aspects:
 
 
- Different pricing structure for different types of 
customers and frequency of price change 
 
 
- Voluminous number of customers 
 
 
- Capturing Gas Consumption data in billing
 
 
- Estimating unbilled revenue at the year-end 
 
 
- Extensive use of SAP and other IT systems for 
managing the billing operation 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information Other than the Standalone Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Management Discussion and Analysis, Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s Report, Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report, Corporate Governance and Shareholder’s Information, but does not include the Standalone 
Financial Statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing 
so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Standalone Financial Statements, or our knowledge 
obtained during the course of our audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required 
to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the Final Annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate 
the matter to those charged with governance and take necessary actions as per applicable laws and regulations.
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation 
of these Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, total 
comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the Ind AS and other accounting 
principles generally accepted in India. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Standalone 
Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Standalone 
Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the 
audit. We also:
- 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one 
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control.
- 
Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the 
Company has adequate internal financial controls system in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
109
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
- 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Standalone Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
- 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of standalone the financial statements, including the disclosures, and 
whether the Standalone Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear 
on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in 
the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these 
matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1. 
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit we report that:
 
a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit.
 
b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books.
 
c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in 
Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account.
 
d) In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section 133 of the Act.
 
e) As the company is a Government Company, in terms of notification no. G.S.R. 463(E) dated 5th June 2015, issued by the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the sub-section (2) of section 164 of the Act is not applicable to the company.
 
f) With respect to the adequacy of internal financial control over financial reporting of the company and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure – A”. Our report expresses an unmodified 
opinion on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial control over financial reporting. 
 
g) As the company is a Government Company, in terms of notification no. G.S.R. 463(E) dated 5th June 2015, issued by the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the sub-section (16) of section 197 of the Act is not applicable to the company.
 
h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations 
given to us:
110
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
i. 
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial 
statements – Refer Note 43 to the standalone financial statements.
 
 
ii. 
The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses.
 
 
iii. 
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Company.  
  
iv. 
(a) The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material 
either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or 
share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the company to or in any other person or entity, 
including foreign entity ("Intermediaries”), which the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
  
 
(b) The Management has represented, that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material 
either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Company from any person or entity, including 
foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Company shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or 
the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
  
 
(c) Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and 
(ii) of Rule 11(e), as provided under (a) and (b) above, contain any material misstatement. 
  
v. 
(a) The final dividend proposed in the previous year, declared and paid by the Company during the year is in 
accordance with Section 123 of the Act, as applicable. 
  
 
(b) The Board of Directors of the Company have proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to the approval 
of the members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The amount of dividend proposed is in accordance with 
section 123 of the Act, as applicable.
  
vi. 
Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 for maintaining books of account using accounting 
software which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility is applicable to the Company with effect from 
April 1, 2023, and accordingly, reporting under Rule 11(g) of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 is not 
applicable for the financial year ended March 31, 2023.
2. 
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in terms 
of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, we give in the “Annexure – B”, a statement on the matters specified in the 
paragraph 3 and 4 of the order.
3. 
In terms of section 143(5) of the Act, we give our report in “Annexure – C” by taking into consideration the information, 
explanations and written representations received from the management on the matters specified in the directions and sub 
directions issued under the aforesaid section by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
111
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For, Manubhai & Shah LLP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chartered Accountants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ICAI Firm Registration No. 106041W/W100136
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
K. B. Solanki
Place: Gandhinagar 
 
 
 
  
 
 Partner
Date:  May 10, 2023 
 
 
                     
 
 Membership No. 110299
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
UDIN: 23110299BGYAQI7966
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNEXURE – A
TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 1 (f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report to the 
members of Gujarat Gas Limited of even date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act. 
In conjunction with our audit of the Standalone Financial statements of Gujarat Gas Limited (‘the Company’) as of and for the year 
ended March 31, 2023, we have also audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Company.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls 
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control 
over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued ICAI. These responsibilities include the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Act. 
Auditor’s Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal financial controls over financial reporting based on our audit. We 
conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (the 
“Guidance Note”) and the SA prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial 
controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting was established and 
maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects. 
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system over 
financial reporting and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting included obtaining 
an understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing 
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend 
on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements, 
whether due to fraud or error. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls system over financial reporting. 
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting 
A company's internal financial control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Standalone Financial Statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal financial control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of Standalone Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; 
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company's assets that could have a material effect on the Standalone Financial Statements. 
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the 
internal financial control over financial reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
Opinion 
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting and 
such internal financial controls over financial reporting were operating effectively as at March 31, 2023, based on the internal control 
over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note.
112
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For, Manubhai & Shah LLP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chartered Accountants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ICAI Firm Registration No. 106041W/W100136
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
K. B. Solanki
Place: Gandhinagar 
 
 
 
  
 
 Partner
Date:  May 10, 2023 
 
 
                     
 
 Membership No. 110299
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
UDIN: 23110299BGYAQI7966
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNEXURE - B
TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 2 under "Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” section of our report the 
members of Gujarat Gas Limited of even date)
Report on the Companies (Auditor’ Report) Order, 2020, issued by the Central Government of india in terms of section 
143 (11) of the Companies Act, 2013(‘the Act’) of Gujarat Gas Limited,(‘the Company’)
To the best of our information and according to the explanations provided to us by the Company and the books of account and 
records examined by us in the normal course of audit, we state that
(i) 
(a) A. 
The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of 
Property, Plant and Equipment.
 
 
B. 
The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
 
(b) The Property, Plant and Equipment have been physically verified by the Management according to a phased programme 
designed to cover all the items, other than underground gas pipelines which are not physically verifiable, over a period of 
three years which, in our opinion, is reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the nature of its assets. 
Pursuant to the programme, certain property, plant and equipment have been physically verified by the Management 
during the year and no material discrepancies have been noticed on such verification.
 
(c) According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company provided to us, we report that, the title in respect of self-constructed buildings and title deeds of all other 
immovable properties (other than properties where the company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed 
in favour of the lessee), disclosed in the financial statements are held in the name of the Company as at the balance sheet 
date except in respect of following immovable properties: 
113
Description of 
properties
Gross carrying 
value as at 
Balance Sheet 
date
Held in name of
Whether 
promoter, director 
or their relative or 
employee
Period held
Reason for not being 
held in name of 
Company
PPE – 
Freehold Land
PPE – 
Freehold Land
PPE – 
Freehold Land
Rs. 15.88 Crore
Re. 1/-
Rs. 21.35 Crore
Government of 
Gujarat
Government of 
Gujarat
Gujarat State 
Petroleum 
Corporation Limited
Promoter
Promoter
Promoter
Held since May 
01, 1999
Held since April 
05, 2002
Held since April 
01, 2006
Disputed
Disputed
Acquired through demerger 
scheme.  Name transfer 
yet not completed. 
 
(d) The company has not revalued any of its Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) and intangible 
assets during the year.
 
(e) No proceedings have been initiated during the year or are pending against the Company as at March 31, 2023 for holding 
any benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (as amended in 2016) and rules made 
thereunder.
(ii) (a) The inventories, other than natural gas in pipelines / cascades / tanks which are not physically verifiable, have been 
physically verified by the management at reasonable intervals.  In our opinion the coverage and procedure of such physical 
verification by the management is appropriate. No material discrepancies noticed on such physical verification.
 
(b) The company has not been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of five crore rupees, in aggregate, at any point of time 
during the year, from bank on the basis of security of current assets and hence reporting under clause 3(ii) (b) of the Order 
is not applicable.  
(iii) During the year, the Company has not made any investment in, provided any guarantee or security to companies, firms, limited 
liability partnerships or any other parties.  During the year, the Company has granted unsecured loans to other parties in respect 
of which:
 
(a) (i) 
Aggregate amount of loan provided to associate is Rs. Nil and balance outstanding at the balance sheet date is Rs. Nil.
 
 
(ii) During the year, aggregate amount of loan provided to employees is Rs.3.60 crores and balance outstanding at the 
balance sheet date is Rs.6.52 crores.
 
(b) In our opinion, terms and conditions of grant of loans, during the year, prima facie, not prejudicial to the interest of the 
Company.
 
(c) In respect of loans granted by the Company, the schedule of repayment of principal and payment of interest, wherever 
applicable, have been stipulated and the repayments of principal amounts and receipts of interest have generally been 
regular as per stipulation.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
114
 
(d) In respect of loans granted by the Company, there is no overdue amount remaining outstanding as at the balance sheet date.
 
(e) No loan granted by the Company which has fallen due during the year, has been renewed or extended or fresh loans granted 
to settle the overdues of existing loans given to the same parties.
 
(f) The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans either repayable on demand or without 
specifying any terms or period of repayment during the year. Hence, reporting under clause 3(iii)(f) is not applicable.
(iv) In our opinion, the Company has complied with the provisions of section 185 and 186 of the Act, with respect to the loans and 
investments made.
(v) The Company has not accepted any deposits. Hence, reporting under clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable.
(vi) We have broadly reviewed the books of account maintained by the Company in respect of products (Natural Gas) pursuant to 
the rules made by the Central Government of India, where the maintenance of cost records has been prescribed under 
subsection (1) of Section 148 of the Act, and are of the opinion that, prima facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been 
made and maintained. However, we have not made a detailed examination of the records with a view to determine whether they 
are accurate or complete.
(vii) (a) In our opinion, the Company is generally regular in depositing the undisputed statutory dues, including goods and service 
tax, value added tax, excise, provident fund, employee’s state insurance, income tax, and other material statutory dues, as 
applicable, with appropriate authorities. As explained to us, the Company did not have any dues on account of duty of 
customs.
 
 
In our opinion, no undisputed amounts payable as applicable were in arrears as at March 31, 2023 for a period of more than 
six months from the date they became payable.  
 
(b) There are no dues of goods and service tax, duty of customs and cess which have not been deposited on account of any 
dispute. The particulars of dues of income tax, service tax and excise duty as at March 31, 2023 which have not been 
deposited on account of dispute, are as follows:
Name of statute
Nature of dues
Amount 
(` in Crores)
Year to which the 
amount relates
Forum where the 
dispute is pending
Income Tax Act, 1961
.
Income Tax Act, 1961
1
Income Tax Act, 1961
Wealth Tax Act, 1957
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax Act, 1961
Central Excise Act, 1944
Central Excise Act, 1944
Central Excise Act, 1944
Central Excise Act, 1944
Finance Act, 1944
Finance Act, 1944
Finance Act, 1944
.
Goods and service tax 
Act, 2017
Income Tax & 
Interest thereon
Income Tax & 
Interest thereon
Income Tax & 
Interest thereon
Wealth Tax
Income Tax & 
Interest thereon
Income Tax & 
Interest thereon
Service Tax and 
Duty of Excise
Service Tax and 
Duty of Excise
Service Tax and 
Duty of Excise
Service Tax and 
Duty of Excise
Service Tax and 
Duty of Excise
Service Tax and 
Duty of Excise
Service Tax and 
Duty of Excise
Service Tax and 
Duty of Excise
0.07
0.00(*)
0.04
0.02
1.29
0.00(*)
7.72
3.41
0.90
1.73
0.08
24.65
0.38
6.15
Financial Year 2007 – 08
 
Financial Year 2011 – 12 
Financial Year 2012 – 13 
Financial Year 2013 – 14 
Financial Year 2016 – 17 
Financial Year 2017 – 18
Financial Years 2010 – 11 to 
2014 – 15
Financial Years 2009-10 to 
2014-15 (up to Aug-2014)
Sept-2014 to 
14th May-2015
May'10 (2010-11) to 
Feb-2016 (up to 02.02.2016)
Financial Years 
2006-07 to 2009-10
Financial Years 
2005-06 to 2012-13
Financial Years 
2006-07 to 2011-12
Financial Year 2017-18
Assessing Officer
Assessing Officer
Assessing Officer
Assessing Officer
Assessing Officer
Assessing Officer
The Customs, Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal
The Customs, Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal
The Customs, Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal
Excise and Service Tax 
commissioner
The Customs, Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal
The Customs, Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal
The Customs, Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal
Commissioner Appeal – 
Goods and Services Tax 
(*)  Figure in ` 0.00 denotes amount less than ` 50,000/-.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
115
(viii) (a) The Company does not have any transactions related to previously unrecorded income in the books of the account that 
have been surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under Income Tax Act, 1961.
(ix) (a) The Company has not defaulted in repayment of loan and payment of interest thereon to the lender.
 
(b) The  Company  has  not  been  declared  wilful  defaulter  by  any  bank  or  financial  institution  or other lender.
 
(c) The Company has not taken any term loan during the year and therefore, reporting under clause 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not 
applicable.
 
(d) On an overall examination of the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company, funds raised on short-term basis have, 
prima facie, not been used during the year for long-term purposes by the Company. According to the information and 
explanation given to us, as Company is engaged in the business of supply of natural gas, being public utility, security deposits 
from the customers, though shown as current liability, the company does not consider the same as short-term funds.
 
(e) On an overall examination of the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company, the Company has not taken any funds 
from any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of its associate. 
 
(f) The Company has not raised any loans during the year on pledge of securities held in its associate and therefore reporting 
on clause3(ix)(f) of the Order is not applicable.
(x) (a) The Company has not raised any money by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments) 
during the year. Therefore, paragraph 3 (x)(a) of the Order is not applicable. 
 
(b) During the year, the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or convertible 
debentures (fully or partly or optionally) and hence reporting under clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable. 
(xi) (a) No fraud by the Company has been noticed or reported during the year. However, we have been informed by the 
Management that, fraud of Rs. 0.38 crore, due to gas pilferage and manipulation of metering data in two industrial 
customers, on the company has been noticed and reported during the year. Till date of the audit report, the company has 
recovered Rs. 0.12 crore and for remaining amount of Rs. 0.26 crore, the Company has initiated the recovery process.
 
(b) No report under sub-section 12 of section 143 of the Act has been filed in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under rule 13 of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central Government of India, during the year and up to the date of this report.
 
(c) As represented to us by the Management, there are no whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the year. 
(xii)  The Company is not a Nidhi company. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xiii)  In our opinion, the Company is in compliance with Section 177 and 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 with respect to applicable 
transactions with the related parties and details of such transactions have been disclosed in the Standalone Financial 
Statements as required by the applicable accounting standards. 
(xiv) (a) In our opinion, the Company has adequate internal audit system commensurate with size and nature of its business.
 
(b) We have considered, the internal audit reports for the year under audit, issued to the Company during the year till date, in 
determining the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures.
(xv) The Company has not entered into non-cash transactions with directors or persons connected with him. Accordingly, paragraph 
3(xv) of the Order is not applicable.
(xvi) (a)  In our opinion, the Company is not required to be registered under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.  
Hence, reporting under clause 3(xvi)(a), (b) and (c) of the Order is not applicable.
 
(b) During the part of the year, the group does not have more than one CIC as part of the group and as on balance sheet date 
there is no CIC within the Group.
(xvii) The company has not incurred any cash losses during the financial year covered by our audit and immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors of the Company during the year.
(xix) On the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected dates of realisation of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, 
other information accompanying the Standalone Financial Statements and our knowledge of the Board of Directors and 
Management plans and based on our examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our 
attention, which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report indicating that 
Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of 
one year from the balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. 
We further state that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor 
any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the 
Company as and when they fall due.   
(xx) a) 
There are no unspent amounts towards Corporate Social Responsibility (herein after referred as “CSR”) on other than 
ongoing projects requiring a transfer to a Fund specified in Schedule VII to the Companies Act in compliance with second 
proviso to sub-section (5) of Section 135 of the said Act. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xx)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable for the year. 
 
b) 
In respect of ongoing projects, the Company has transferred unspent CSR amount as at the end of the previous financial 
year and current financial year to a special account within a period of 30 days from the end of the said financial year and 
current financial year respectively in compliance with the provision of section 135(6) of the Act. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For, Manubhai & Shah LLP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chartered Accountants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ICAI Firm Registration No. 106041W/W100136
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
K. B. Solanki
Place: Gandhinagar 
 
 
 
  
 
 Partner
Date:  May 10, 2023 
 
 
                     
 
 Membership No. 110299
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
UDIN: 23110299BGYAQI7966
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNEXURE – C
TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
(Referred to in paragraph 3 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Based on the audit procedures performed and taking into consideration the information, explanations and written representations 
given to us by the management in the normal course of audit, we report to the best of our knowledge and belief that:
116
Sr. 
No.
Impact on 
accounts 
and financial 
statements
Auditor’s response
Directions / Sub-directions issued by 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India
 1 
Whether the company has system in place to process 
all the accounting transactions through IT system? If 
yes, the implications of processing of accounting 
transactions outside IT system on the integrity of the 
accounts along with the financial implications, if any, 
may be stated
 2 
Whether there is any restructuring of an existing loan 
or cases of waiver / write off of debts / loans / interest 
etc. made by a lender to the company due to the 
company’s inability to repay the loan? If yes, the 
financial impact may be stated. Whether such cases 
are properly accounted for? (In case, lender is a 
Government company, then this direction is also 
applicable for statutory auditor of lender company).
 3 
Whether funds (grants/subsidy etc.) received / 
receivable for specific schemes from Central/State 
Government or its agencies were properly accounted 
for/utilized as per its term and conditions? List the 
cases of deviation.
 4 
Whether the Company’s pricing policy absorbs all 
fixed and variable cost of production and the 
overheads allocated at the time of fixation of price?
 5 
Whether the Company recovers commission for work 
executed on behalf of Government / other 
organizations that is properly recorded in the books of 
accounts?
  
Whether the Company has an efficient system for 
billing and collection of revenue?
The Company has system in place to process all the 
accounting transactions through IT System i.e. SAP. All 
the financial transactions including customer related 
transactions are integrated in SAP system. We have 
not come across any accounting transaction outside 
the SAP system
There are no cases of restructuring of any existing loan 
or any waiver of loan / debt / interest during the year.
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, there are no cases of receipt 
of grants /subsidy from Central / State Government 
or its agencies. 
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has a pricing 
policy and the Company’s pricing policy is considering 
all fixed and variable cost of production / supply of 
natural gas and the overheads allocated at the time of 
fixation of price.
The Company has not undertaken any work or project 
executed on behalf of Government / other 
organizations and recovery of commission for the 
same.
The Company has SAP system in place for billing and 
accounting for collection of revenue. The Company 
has a policy and procedures in place for effective 
monitoring of credit exposure and recovery of dues 
from its customers in respect of its sales activities.
No impact
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
No impact
Not 
Applicable
No impact
  
Sub – directions – Service Sector
  
Directions
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
117
Sr. 
No.
Impact on 
accounts 
and financial 
statements
Auditor’s response
Directions / Sub-directions issued by 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India
 6 
Whether the Company regularly monitors timely 
receipt of subsidy from Government and it is properly 
recording them in its books?
 7 
Whether interest earned on parking of funds received 
for specific projects from Government was properly 
accounted for?
 8 
Whether the Company has entered into Memorandum 
of understanding with its Administrative Ministry, 
if so, whether the impact thereof has been properly 
dealt with in the financial statements?
 9 
Whether the company has an effective system for 
recovery of dues in respect of its sales activities and 
the dues outstanding and recoveries there against 
have been properly recorded in the books of 
accounts?
 10 Whether the company has effective system for 
physical verification, valuation of stock, treatment of 
non-moving items and accounting the effect of 
shortage / excess noticed during physical 
verification?
 11 The effectiveness of the system followed in recovery 
of dues in respect of sale activities may be examined 
and reported. 
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, there are no cases of receipt 
of subsidy from Government. 
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, there are no cases of receipt 
of fund for any projects from Government.
During the year, the Company has not entered 
into Memorandum of understanding with its 
Administrative Ministry.
The Company has a policy and procedure for effective 
monitoring of credit exposure and recovery of dues 
from its customers in respect of its sales activities.
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanation given to us, the recoveries against the 
dues have been properly recorded in the books of 
accounts.
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the procedures and systems, 
in relation to physical verification of inventories, 
valuation of stock, treatment of non-moving items 
and accounting the effect of shortage / excess 
noticed during physical verification, are reasonable 
and adequate in relation to the size of the Company 
and the nature of its business.
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has a policy 
and procedure for effective monitoring of credit 
exposure and recovery of dues from its customers in 
respect of its sales activities. There are no significant 
instances of its failure observed for the year under 
audit.
Allowance for bad and doubtful debts as on March 31, 
2023 is Rs 19.74 Crore based on expected credit loss 
model.
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
No impact
Impact taken 
into account 
in the 
financial 
statements
Impact taken 
into account 
in the 
financial 
statements
  
Sub – Directions – Trading 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For, Manubhai & Shah LLP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chartered Accountants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ICAI Firm Registration No. 106041W/W100136
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
K. B. Solanki
Place: Gandhinagar 
 
 
 
  
 
 Partner
Date:  May 10, 2023 
 
 
                     
 
 Membership No. 110299
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
UDIN: 23110299BGYAQI7966
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31ST MARCH 2023
(` in Crores)
 
 
 
Particulars  
 Note 
As at  
As at
 
 
 
 
No. 31st March 2023 31st March 2022
I. 
ASSETS  
 
 
1 
Non-Current Assets 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Property, plant and equipment 
 3.1  
 6,601.82  
 5,967.76 
 
(b)  Capital work in progress 
 3.2  
 957.60  
 965.91 
 
(c)  Investment property 
 4  
 1.30  
 1.30 
 
(d)  Intangible assets 
 5.1  
 476.16  
 403.92 
 
(e)  Intangible assets under development 
 5.2  
 25.51  
 26.39 
 
(f) Right-of-use assets 
 5.3  
 258.39  
 258.22 
 
(g) Financial assets 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
Investment in associates 
 6  
 0.03  
 0.03 
 
 
(ii) Investments 
 7  
 30.38  
 22.36 
 
 
(iii) Loans 
 8  
 2.74  
 3.56 
 
 
(iv) Other financial assets 
 9  
 97.92  
 81.27 
 
(h) Other non-current assets 
 10  
 464.05  
 436.94 
 
 
Total Non-Current Assets 
 
 8,915.90  
 8,167.66 
2 
Current Assets 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Inventories 
 11  
 61.18  
 53.39 
 
(b)  Financial Assets 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
Investments 
 
 -    
 -   
 
 
(ii) Trade receivables 
 12  
 1,021.15  
 930.05 
 
 
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents 
 13  
 674.70  
 19.59 
 
 
(iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above 
 14  
 6.28  
 1.54 
 
 
(v) Loans 
 15  
 3.84  
 2.91 
 
 
(vi) Other financial assets 
 16  
 9.86  
 16.80 
 
(c) Other current assets 
 17  
 202.18  
 363.34 
 
 
Total Current Assets 
 
 1,979.19  
 1,387.62 
 
TOTAL ASSETS 
 
 10,895.09  
 9,555.28
II. 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
 
 
 
1 
Equity   
 
 
 
(a)  Equity share capital  
 18  
 137.68  
 137.68 
 
(b)  Other Equity 
 19  
 6,857.93  
 5,461.62 
 
 
Total Equity 
 
 6,995.61  
 5,599.30 
2 
Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
Non-Current Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Financial Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
Borrowings 
 20  
 -    
 390.97 
 
 
(ii) Lease Liabilities 
 21  
 123.93  
 125.33 
 
(b) Provisions 
 22  
 55.00  
 53.78 
 
(c) Deferred tax liabilities (Net) 
 23  
 846.10  
 807.72 
 
(d) Other non-current liabilities 
 24  
 71.08  
 68.83 
 
 
 Total Non-Current Liabilities  
 
 1,096.11  
 1,446.63 
 
Current Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Financial Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
Borrowings 
 25  
 -    
 90.10 
 
 
(ii) Lease Liabilities 
 21  
 28.39  
 22.45 
 
 
(iii) Trade payables 
 26  
 
 
 
 
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises 
 
 18.50  
 21.36 
 
 
 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises   
 
 697.08  
 424.27 
 
 
 
and small enterprises
 
 
(iv) Other financial liabilities 
 27  
 1,897.86  
 1,841.96 
 
(b) Other current liabilities 
 28  
 134.16  
 80.69 
 
(c)  Provisions 
 29  
 27.38  
 28.52 
 
(d)  Current Tax Liabilities (Net) 
 30  
 -    
 -   
 
  
Total Current Liabilities  
 
 2,803.37  
 2,509.35 
 
  
Total Liabilities  
 
 3,899.48  
 3,955.98
 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
 
 10,895.09  
 9,555.28
See accompanying notes to the financial statements (1-59)
As per our report attached 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of Gujarat Gas Limited
For Manubhai & Shah LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
 
ICAI Firm Reg. No. – 106041W/W100136 
Raj Kumar, IAS   
Milind Torawane, IAS  
 Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)
 
 
 
Chairman  
Managing Director   
 Director  
K.B. Solanki 
DIN - 00294527 
DIN - 03632394  
 DIN- 00023872   
Partner  
 
 
 
M. No. : 110299 
  
Nitesh Bhandari         
 Sandeep Dave
 
 
 
  
Chief Financial Officer   
 Company Secretary 
Place  
:  Gandhinagar 
 
 
 Place :  Gandhinagar 
Date  
:  10th May, 2023 
 
 
 Date :  10th May, 2023
118
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2023
(` in Crores)
 
                                           Particulars  
 Note 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
 
 
 
No. 
31st March 2023 
 31st March 2022
Income
I. Revenue from Operations 
31 
 17,306.16  
 16,787.35 
II. Other income 
32 
 101.27  
 90.74 
III. Total Income (I+II) 
 
 17,407.43  
 16,878.09 
IV. Expenses 
 
 
 
Cost of materials consumed / Purchase of stock in trade 
33 
 13,276.19  
 13,444.11 
 
Changes in inventories of natural gas 
34 
 (2.76) 
 (7.24)
 
Employee Benefits Expenses 
35 
 195.58  
 190.88 
 
Finance Costs 
36 
 40.35  
 56.82 
 
Depreciation and Amortization Expenses 
37 
 428.26  
 384.91 
 
Excise Duty 
 
 546.76  
 331.13 
 
Other Expenses 
38 
 898.40  
 752.17 
Total Expenses (IV) 
 
 15,382.78  
 15,152.78 
V. Profit Before Exceptional Items and Tax(III-IV) 
 
 2,024.65  
 1,725.31 
VI. Exceptional Items 
39 
 -    
 11.90 
VII. Profit Before Tax (V-VI) 
 
 2,024.65  
 1,713.41 
VIII. Tax expense: 
40 
 
 
Current Tax 
 
 463.38  
 416.03 
 
Deferred Tax 
 
 35.80  
 11.74 
 
Total Tax Expense (VIII) 
 
 499.18  
 427.77 
IX. Profit for the period(VII-VIII) 
 
 1,525.47  
 1,285.64  
X.  Other comprehensive income 
41
 
(i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 
 
 11.09  
 3.38 
 
(ii) Income tax related to items that will not be reclassified   
 
 (2.57) 
 (0.69)
 
 
to profit or loss
 Total other comprehensive income (X)  
 
 8.52  
 2.69
XI.  Total comprehensive income for the period(IX+X) 
 
 1,533.99  
 1,288.33
Earnings per equity share of Face Value of ` 2 each 
42 
 
 
Basic  
 
 22.16  
 18.68 
 
Diluted  
 
 22.16  
 18.68 
See accompanying notes to the financial statements (1-59)
As per our report attached 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of Gujarat Gas Limited
For Manubhai & Shah LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
 
ICAI Firm Reg. No 106041W/W100136
 
 
 
Raj Kumar, IAS   
Milind Torawane, IAS  
 Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)
 
 
 
Chairman  
Managing Director   
 Director
K.B. Solanki 
DIN - 00294527 
DIN - 03632394  
 DIN- 00023872
Partner  
 
 
 
M. No. : 110299 
  
Nitesh Bhandari         
 Sandeep Dave
 
 
 
  
Chief Financial Officer   
 Company Secretary 
Place :  Gandhinagar 
 
 
 Place :  Gandhinagar 
Date : 10th May, 2023 
 
 
 Date : 10th May, 2023
119
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(` in Crores)
 
                                                   Particulars  
 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
 
 
 
 
31st March 2023 
 31st March 2022
A. 
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
 
 
Net Profit Before Tax 
 
 2,024.65  
 1,713.41 
 
Adjustments for: 
 
 
 
Depreciation and Amortization Expenses 
  
428.26  
 384.91 
 
 
Loss on sale/disposal of Property, plant and equipment   
3.26  
 1.49 
 
 
Profit on sale as scrap and diminution in  Capital Inventory 
 (0.74) 
 (1.03)
 
 
Loss on sale as scrap and diminution in  Capital Inventory 
 0.88  
 2.74 
 
 
Profit on Lease termination / modification / reassessment (net) 
 (0.44) 
 -   
 
 
Provision for Doubtful Trade Receivables / Advances / Deposits 
 6.12  
 3.71 
 
 
Finance Costs 
  
40.35  
 56.82 
 
 
Provision/liability no longer required written back 
  
(16.91) 
 (20.78)
 
 
Dividend Income 
  
(0.00)    
 (0.00) 
 
 
Interest Income 
  
(51.88) 
 (33.67)
 
Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes 
 
2,433.55  
 2,107.60 
 
Adjustments for changes in Working Capital 
 
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Trade Receivables 
  
(97.19) 
 (146.79)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Other - Non Current Assets 
  
(48.34) 
 (50.36)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Other financial assets-Non-current 
 (13.30) 
 (3.26)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Loans and Advances-Current  
 (0.93) 
 (1.62)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Other Current Assets 
  
161.16  
 (178.07)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Other financial assets-Current   
6.94  
 (11.28)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Inventories 
  
(7.79) 
 (0.91)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Loan and advances-Non current 
 0.82  
 (1.39)
 
 
Changes in Assets 
  
1.37  
 (393.68)
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in Trade Payables 
 
 271.50  
 1.42 
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in Other financial liabilities-Current 
 60.26  
 342.11 
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in Other current liabilities 
 
 58.95  
 23.60 
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in Other Non current Liabilities 
 
 2.25  
 5.89 
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in Short-term provisions 
 
9.57  
 9.14 
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in Long-term provisions 
  
1.32  
 2.01  
 
 
Changes in Liabilities 
  
403.85  
 384.17 
 
Cash Generated from Operations 
  
2,838.77  
 2,098.09 
 
 
Income tax refund 
 
 23.32  
 1.33 
 
 
Income tax paid 
  
(484.13) 
 (437.66)
 
Net Cash from/(used in) Operating Activities 
  
2,377.96  
 1,661.76 
B.  
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
 
 
Payments for Property, plant and equipments/Intangible assets   
(1,086.73) 
 (1,366.30)
 
 
including capital work in progress and capital advances. 
 
 
Other Bank balances in Earmark funds 
  
(4.74) 
 39.79 
 
 
Interest received 
  
49.86  
 32.94 
 
 
Proceeds from sale of Property, plant and equipments   
0.28  
 0.03 
 
 
Dividend received 
  
0.00  
 0.00     
 
Net Cash from/(used in) Investing Activities 
  
(1,041.33) 
 (1,293.54)
C. 
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
 
 
Payments of lease liabilities 
 
 (24.53) 
 (18.55)
 
 
Proceeds /(Repayment) of Long-term  borrowings (Net)  
 (477.85) 
 (419.28)
 
 
[Refer footnote (iv)]
 
 
Repayment of short term borrowing 
 
- 
-
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2023
120
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(` in Crores)
(` in Crores)
(` in Crores)
 
                                                   Particulars  
 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
 
 
 
 
31st March 2023 
 31st March 2022 
 
 
Interest Paid (including interest on lease liability) 
  
(38.14) 
 (53.14)
 
 
Dividend Paid (including tax thereon) 
  
(137.85) 
 (137.47)
 
Net Cash from/(used in) Financing Activities 
 
 (678.37) 
 (628.44)
NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (A+B+C)   
658.26  
 (260.22)
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the year 
  
16.44  
 276.66 
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of  the  year 
  
674.70  
 16.44 
Details of Closing Cash and Cash Equivalents and reconciliation with 
Balance sheet: 
 
(A)  Cash and Cash Equivalents ( Refer note 13) 
 
 
Cash in hand 
  
1.42  
 1.61 
 
Balances with Banks 
 
 48.52  
 17.98 
 
Balances in Fixed / Liquid Deposits 
  
624.76  
 -    
(B) Balances in Bank Overdraft / Cash Credit (Refer note 25) 
 -    
 (3.15)
 
Total (A+B) 
  
674.70  
 16.44   
Cash flown from Proceeds /(Repayment) of Long-term  borrowings  For the year ended 
For the year ended
(Net):-  
 
 
31st March 2023 
 31st March 2022
Proceeds from Long-term borrowings 
 
 -    
 -   
Loan Swapping/ Refinance -[New loan] 
  
-    
 -   
Loan Swapping/ Refinance [Old loan] 
  
-    
 -   
(Repayment) of Long-term  borrowings  
  
(477.85) 
 (419.28)
Net Proceeds /(Repayment) of Long-term  borrowings 
  
(477.85) 
 (419.28)
Change in Liability arising from finance activity 
 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
 
 
 
 
31st March 2023 
 31st March 2022
Opening Balance- Long term borrowings (Including current portion) 
 477.92  
 897.26 
Cash flow (Net) 
 
 (477.85) 
 (419.28)
Loan Swapping/ Refinance -[New loan] 
 
 -    
 -   
Loan Swapping/ Refinance [Old loan] 
 
 -    
 -   
Non Cash movement 
 
 (0.07) 
 (0.06)
Closing Balance Long term borrowings (Including current portion) 
 -    
 477.92 
Notes to Statement of Cash Flows: 
 
(i)  
The above Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared under the “Indirect Method” as set out in the Indian Accounting 
Standard IND AS - 7 on Statement of Cash Flows. 
 
(ii) 
 Purchase of Property, plant and equipments and other Intangible assets are stated inclusive of movements of capital work in 
progress, assets under development and capital advances.  
(iii)  Interest received is classified as investing cash flows and considered and presented as ‘cash flows from investing activities’ to 
the extent, it represents time value of money. 
 
(iv)  Disclosure of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including changes arising from cash flows and  non cash changes:
 
Refer Note 50 for reconciliation of lease liability under financing activities
(v)  Previous year figures have been regrouped and reclassified wherever considered necessary to conform to the current year's 
figures.
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2023
121
As per our report attached 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of Gujarat Gas Limited
For Manubhai & Shah LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
 
ICAI Firm Reg. No. – 106041W/W100136
 
 
 
Raj Kumar, IAS   
Milind Torawane, IAS  
Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)
 
 
 
Chairman  
Managing Director   
Director
K.B. Solanki 
DIN - 00294527  
DIN - 03632394  
DIN- 00023872 
Partner  
 
 
 
M. No. : 110299 
  
Nitesh Bhandari         
Sandeep Dave
 
 
 
  
Chief Financial Officer   
Company Secretary 
Place :  Gandhinagar 
 
 
Place :  Gandhinagar 
Date : 10th May, 2023 
 
 
Date : 10th May, 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(B) Other equity  
(` in Crores)
 Particulars 
As at 31st March 2023 As at 31st March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the reporting period  
137.68  
137.68 
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors 
- 
-
Restated balance at the beginning of the reporting period 
137.68  
137.68
Changes in equity share capital during the year 
-    
-
Balance at the end of the reporting period 
137.68  
137.68
(A) Equity Share Capital 
(  in Crores)
`
** Capital Reserve is created on account of Business combination transaction (Refer note no. 56)
Note (i) : The "Amalgamation and Arrangement Reserve" created pursuant to scheme of amalgamation and arrangement is treated as free 
reserve based on the judgment of Honourable Gujarat High Court dated 18th April 2015 read with relevant other court decisions.
Note (ii) : The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other comprehensive 
income. These changes are accumulated within the FVOCI equity investments reserve.
Note (iii) : Accumulated balance of Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligation, Gain/(Loss) net of tax, recognised in retained 
earnings is ` (7.31) Crores (Previous year ` (9.61) Crores).
Note (iv):  Nature and purpose of each reserve is disclosed under note no. 19 -'Other equity'
 Particulars
Reserves & Surplus
Items of Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Total Other
 Equity
Balance at April 1, 2022 
 879.59  
 (23.98) 
 2.72  
 4,710.91  
 (107.63) 
 5,461.62 
Changes in accounting policy / prior period errors 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Restated balance at the beginning of the reporting period (a) 
 879.59  
 (23.98) 
 2.72  
 4,710.91  
 (107.63) 
 5,461.62 
Profit for the year 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 1,525.47  
 -     1,525.47 
Other comprehensive income for the year 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 6.22  
 6.22 
Items of OCI recognised directly in retained earnings:
 
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 2.30  
 -    
 2.30 
 
obligation, net of tax
Total comprehensive income for the year (b) 
 -    
 -    
 -     1,527.77  
 6.22   1,533.99 
Dividend (c) 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 (137.68) 
 -    
 (137.68)
Balance at March 31, 2023 (a+b+c) 
 879.59  
 (23.98) 
 2.72  
 6,101.00  
 (101.41) 
 6,857.93 
Balance at April 1, 2021 
 879.59  
 (23.98) 
 2.72  
 3,562.38  
 (109.75) 
 4,310.96 
Changes in accounting policy / prior period errors 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
Restated balance at the beginning of the reporting period  (d) 
 879.59  
 (23.98) 
 2.72  
 3,562.38  
 (109.75) 
 4,310.96 
Profit for the year 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 1,285.64  
 -     1,285.64  
Other comprehensive income for the year 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 2.12  
 2.12  
Items of OCI recognised directly in retained earnings:
 
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligation,  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 0.57  
 -    
 0.57
 
net of tax  
Total comprehensive income for the year (e) 
 -    
 -    
 -     1,286.21  
 2.12   1,288.33 
Dividend (f)  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 (137.68) 
 -    
 (137.68)
Balance at March 31, 2022 (d+e+f) 
 879.59  
 (23.98) 
 2.72  
 4,710.91  
 (107.63) 
 5,461.62 
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (SOCIE) 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2023
122
Amalgamation
&  Arrangement
Reserve
General
Reserve
Capital 
Reserve **
Retained
Earnings
Equity
Instruments
through OCI
Attributable to the equity holders of the Company
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
As per our report attached 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of Gujarat Gas Limited
For Manubhai & Shah LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
 
ICAI Firm Reg. No. – 106041W/W100136
 
 
 
Raj Kumar, IAS   
Milind Torawane, IAS  
Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)
 
 
 
Chairman  
Managing Director   
Director
K.B. Solanki 
DIN - 00294527  
DIN - 03632394  
DIN- 00023872 
Partner  
 
 
 
M. No. : 110299 
  
Nitesh Bhandari         
Sandeep Dave
 
 
 
  
Chief Financial Officer   
Company Secretary 
Place :  Gandhinagar 
 
 
Place :  Gandhinagar 
Date : 10th May, 2023 
 
 
Date : 10th May, 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Note 1 – Corporate Information
1. 
Corporate Information
 
a) 
Gujarat Gas Limited (GGL or "Company") (CIN : L40200GJ2012SGC069118) formerly known as GSPC Distribution 
Networks Limited (GDNL) is a public limited company domiciled in India and incorporated under the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 1956. GGL is a Government Company u/s 2(45) of Companies Act 2013. Its shares are listed on Bombay 
Stock Exchange and National Stock Exchange in India.
 
 
The registered office is located at Gujarat Gas CNG Station, Sector 5/C, Gandhinagar -382006.
 
 
The Company is engaged in Natural Gas Business in India. Natural gas business involves distribution of gas from sources of 
supply to centres of demand and to the end customers.
 
 
The scheme of amalgamation and arrangement was sanctioned by the Hon’ble Gujarat High Court at Ahmedabad vide its 
order dated 30th March 2015 between the following transferor companies -
 
 
1. 
GSPC Gas Company Limited (GSPC Gas)
 
 
2. 
Gujarat Gas Company Limited (GGCL)
 
 
3. 
Gujarat Gas Financial Services Limited (GFSL)
 
 
4. 
Gujarat Gas Trading Company Limited (GTCL) 
 
 
(Collectively called Transferor Companies)
 
 
with Gujarat Gas Limited (formerly known as GSPC Distribution Networks Limited-GDNL) (the transferee) under the 
Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement with an appointed date of 1st April, 2013. Subsequently, the company's 
name has been changed from GSPC Distribution Networks Limited to Gujarat Gas Limited (GGL) with effect from 
15th May 2015.
 
b) 
Authorization of financial statements
 
 
The Standalone Financial Statements were approved and authorized for issue in accordance with a resolution passed in 
meeting of Board of the Directors held on 10th May, 2023.
 
c) 
Functional and Presentation Currency
 
 
The financial statements are presented in Indian rupee ` (INR), which is the functional and presentation currency of the 
Company.
Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies
 
This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. These 
policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
 
Basis of Preparation
 
(i) 
Statement of Compliance with Ind AS
 
 
The standalone financial statements has been prepared in accordance and comply in all material aspects with Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified and applicable under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) 
[Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015] and other relevant provisions of the Act and read with Rule 3 of 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended and Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2016 and relevant amendment rules issued thereafter.  
 
 
Accordingly, the Company has prepared these Standalone Financial Statements which comprise the Balance Sheet as at 31 
March, 2023, the Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended 31 March 2023, the Statement of Cash Flows for the 
year ended 31 March 2023 and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended as on that date, and accounting 
policies and other explanatory information (together hereinafter referred to as ‘Standalone Financial Statements’ or 
‘financial statements’).
 
 
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non-current as per the Company's normal operating cycle and 
other criteria set out in the Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013.
 
(ii) Historical cost convention
 
 
The financial statements are prepared as a going concern on accrual basis of accounting under historical cost convention, 
except for the following:
 
 
• 
certain financial instruments measured at fair value;
 
 
• 
defined benefit plans - plan assets measured at fair value; and 
123
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
Use of estimates and judgements
 
The presentation of the financial statements  are in conformity with the Ind AS which requires the management to make 
estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and 
disclosure of contingent liabilities. Such estimates and assumptions are based on management's evaluation of relevant facts 
and circumstances as on the date of financial statements. The actual outcome may differ from these estimates. 
 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to the accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
 
This note provides an overview of the areas that involved a higher degree of judgement or complexity, and of items which are 
more likely to be materially adjusted due to estimates and assumptions turning out to be different than those originally assessed. 
Detailed information about each of these estimates and judgements is included in relevant notes together with information 
about the basis of calculation for each affected line item in the financial statements.
 
Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment 
within the next financial year are included in the following notes:
 
Note 3.1 & 5.1: 
Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 
Note 12:  
 
Recognition and measurement of unbilled gas sales revenue
 
Note 26, 27,28 &29: 
Recognition and measurement of other provisions
 
Note40:  
 
Current/deferred tax expense (Including estimates for Uncertain tax treatments)
 
Note 43:  
 
Contingent liabilities and assets
 
Note 45:  
 
Expected credit loss for receivables
 
Note 45:  
 
Fair valuation of unlisted securities
 
Note 47:  
 
Measurement of defined benefit obligations
 
Note 5.3 & 50: 
 Definition of Lease, lease term and discount rate
(a) Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property plant and equipment are stated at their cost of acquisition / construction less depreciation and impairment, if any. The 
cost comprises of the purchase price and any attributable cost for bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use; 
like freight, duties, taxes and other incidental expenses, net of CENVAT or Goods and service tax (GST) credit.
 
The Company capitalises to project assets all the cost directly attributable and ascertainable, to completing the project. These 
costs include expenditure of pipelines, plant and machinery, cost of laying of pipeline, cost of survey, commissioning and testing 
charge, detailed engineering and interest on borrowings attributable to acquisition of such assets. The gas distribution networks 
are treated as commissioned when supply of gas commences to the customer(s). 
 
Subsequent expenditures, including replacement costs where applicable, incurred for an item Property plant and equipment are 
added to its book value only if they increase the future benefits from the existing asset beyond its previously assessed standard 
of performance and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component accounted for as a 
separate asset is de-recognised when replaced. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred. 
 
Component accounting of assets: If significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, then 
they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment. The Company has identified, 
reviewed, tested and determined the componentisation of the significant assets.
 
Assets installed at customer premises, including meters and regulators where applicable, are recognised as property plant and 
equipment if they meet the definition provided under Ind AS 16 subject to materiality as determined by the management and 
followed consistently.
 
Any item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or when no 
future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated 
as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is charged to revenue in the income 
statement when the asset is derecognised.
 
The cost and related accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the financial statements upon sale or retirement of the asset. 
 
On transition to Ind AS, the Company had elected to carry forward the previous GAAP net carrying value of all its property, plant 
and equipment recognized as at 1st April, 2015 as the deemed cost.
124
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
Capital work in Progress:
 
Capital Work in Progress includes expenditure incurred on assets, which are yet to be commissioned and capital inventory, which 
comprises stock of capital items/construction materials at respective city gas network.
 
All the directly identifiable and ascertainable expenditure, incidental and related to construction incurred during the period of 
construction on a project, till it is commissioned, are kept as Capital work in progress (CWIP) and disclosed under ‘Capital work-in-
progress’ and after commissioning the same is transferred / allocated to the respective category of property, plant and equipment.
 
Further, advances paid towards the acquisition of property, plant and equipment outstanding at each balance sheet date are 
classified as capital advances under other non- current assets.
(b) Investment Properties
 
Investment properties comprises of free hold or lease hold land that are held for rental yield and/or capital appreciation. 
 
Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs and where applicable borrowing costs. 
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to the asset's carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and 
maintenance costs are expensed as and when incurred. When part of an investment property is replaced, the carrying amount of 
the replaced part is derecognised.
 
On transition to Ind AS, the Company had elected to carry forward the previous GAAP net carrying value of all its investment 
property recognized as at 1st April, 2015 as the deemed cost.
(c) Intangible assets
 
Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment. Intangible Assets includes amount paid 
towards obtaining the Right of Use (ROU) of land and Right of Way (ROW) permissions for laying the gas pipeline network and 
cost of developing software for internal use. The Company capitalises software as Intangible Asset where it is expected to 
provide future enduring economic benefits. Cost associated with maintaining software programmes are recognised as expenses 
as and when incurred.
 
Any item of intangible assets is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or 
disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the intangible asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the intangible asset) is charged to revenue in the income statement when the intangible 
asset is derecognised.
 
On transition to Ind AS, the Company had elected to carry forward the previous GAAP net carrying value of all its intangible 
assets recognized as at 1st April, 2015 as the deemed cost.
(d) Depreciation and amortisation methods, estimated useful lives and residual values
 
Depreciation is calculated to systematically allocate the cost of property, plant and equipment, intangible asset and investment 
property net of the estimated residual values over the estimated useful life. Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation is 
computed using Straight Line Method (SLM) over the useful lives of the assets as specified in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 
2013, read with the following notes:
 
i. 
The Schedule specifies useful life of Pipelines as 30 years for those used in exploration, production and refining of oil and 
gas. The Company has considered the useful life of 30 years for the pipelines used in city gas distribution business. 
 
ii. 
City gas stations, skids, pressure regulating stations, meters and regulators are estimated to have useful life of 18 years 
based on technical assessment made by technical expert and management.
 
iii. 
Cost of mobile phones, are expensed off in the year of purchase.
 
iv. 
Temporary building structures are estimated to have useful life of 1 year.
 
The management believes that these useful lives are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the period over which the assets 
are likely to be used. The useful lives are reviewed by the management at each financial year end and revised, if appropriate. In 
case of a revision, the unamortised depreciable amount (remaining net value of assets) is charged over the revised remaining 
useful lives.
 
Based on management estimate, residual value of 5% is considered for respective tangible assets except for the Pipeline 
Network assets where the residual value is considered to be NIL as the said assets technically and commercially not feasible to 
extract from underground.
 
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment (PPE) are reviewed at the end of 
each financial year and adjusted prospectively if appropriate.
125
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
Component accounting of assets: If significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, then 
they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment and accordingly depreciated at 
the useful lives specified as above.
 
Depreciation on items of property, plant and equipment acquired / disposed off during the year is provided on pro-rata basis 
with reference to the date of addition / disposal.
 
Investment properties, if any, are depreciated based on the useful life prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013.
 
Intangible assets are amortized over their individual estimated useful lives on a Straight Line basis, commencing from the year in 
which the same are available to the company for its intended use. The useful lives as estimated by the management for the 
intangible assets are as follows: 
 
I. 
Right of Way (ROW) Permissions  
30 Years
 
 
(Considered more than 10 years as inextricably linked and dependent on the useful life of pipeline networks as referred 
above for which the Right of Way has been obtained).
 
II. 
Software 
 
6 Years.
 
No amortisation is charged on Right of Use (RoU) of land being perpetual in nature. The same is tested for impairment based on 
principles of Ind AS 36.
 
The Company has constructed / installed CNG stations' buildings and machineries, on land taken on lease from various lessor 
under lease deed for periods ranging from 35 years to 99 years. However, assets constructed / installed on such land have been 
depreciated at useful lives as referred above.
 
Capital assets /facilities installed at the customers’ premises on the land of the customers/CNG franchisee whose ownership is 
not with the company have been depreciated at the useful lives specified as above.
(e) Impairment of non-financial assets
 
In accordance with Ind AS 36 on “Impairment of Assets” at the balance sheet date, non-financial assets are reviewed for 
impairment losses whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.  For 
the purpose of assessing impairment, the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use 
that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets, is considered as a cash generating unit. If 
any such indication exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount of the asset/cash generating unit is made. Assets whose 
carrying value exceeds their recoverable amount are written down to the recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is higher of 
an asset’s or cash generating unit’s net selling price and its value in use. Assessment is also done at each Balance Sheet date as to 
whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognized for an asset in prior accounting periods may no longer exist or 
may have decreased.
 
Impairment losses of continuing operations, including impairment on inventories, are recognised in the statement of profit and 
loss, except for properties previously revalued with the revaluation surplus taken to Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). For 
such properties, the impairment is recognised in OCI up to the amount of any previous revaluation surplus.
(f) Revenue recognition
 
i) 
Revenue from operation 
 
 
Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance obligation is measured at the amount of transaction price (net of variable 
consideration) allocated to that performance obligation. The transaction price of goods sold and services rendered is net of 
variable consideration on account of discounts and rebates, if any, as part of the contract in the normal course of the 
Company's activities.
 
 
Income is recognized in the income statement when the control of the goods or services has been transferred. The amount 
recognised as revenue is stated inclusive of excise duty and exclusive of sales tax /value added tax (VAT) and Goods and 
service tax (GST). 
 
 
Revenue from sale of Natural Gas is recognized at the point in time when control is transferred to the customer, generally on 
delivery of the gas on metered/assessed measurements facility. Sales are billed bi-monthly for domestic customers, 
monthly/fortnightly for commercial and non-commercial customers and fortnightly / 10 days basis for industrial 
customers. 
 
 
Revenue from sale of Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) is recognized at the point in time when control is transferred to the 
customer, generally on delivery of the gas to consumers from retail outlets and is billed weekly / fortnightly cycle in case of 
OMC customers.
 
 
Revenue recognised towards supply of natural gas already occurred for the period from the end of the last billing date to the 
Balance Sheet date has been reflected under “Trade receivables ”(which refer as unbilled revenue)  which is calculated  
based on customer wise previous average consumption.
126
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
 
Gas transmission income is recognized over the period in which the related volumes of gas are delivered to the customers.
 
 
Commitments (take or pay charges) income from customers for gas sales and gas transmission is recognized on accrual 
basis in the period to which it relates to. 
 
 
In case of industrial customers, non-refundable charges for initial or additional gas connection collected from the 
customers is deferred over the period of contract with respective customers and in case of domestic & commercial 
customers is deferred over the useful life of the asset.
 
 
Revenue of yearly fees income is recognised on accrual basis over the period, on time proportion basis, considering the 
terms of the underlying contract with customers. For Domestic customers, as the amount for yearly fees is collected post 
completion of the year, unbilled yearly fees is calculated on time proportionate basis from the due date to the Balance 
Sheet date and the same is disclosed under “Trade receivables” (which refer as unbilled revenue).” For Commercial/Non-
Commercial customers, Yearly fees is billed in advance to the customers calculated based on time proportionate basis is 
deferred over such period and the same is disclosed under Other current liabilities as “Deferred revenue”
 
 
Change of Estimate for unbilled revenue and its impact on P&L:
 
 
Till the financial year 2021-22, unbilled revenue of yearly fees income was calculated considering average number of 
customers based on latest billing cycle. For more accurate unbilled revenue accounting, from the financial year 2022-23, 
unbilled yearly fees are calculated on time proportionate basis.  As a result of the change in basis of estimate, the additional 
impact in yearly fees is ` 7.58 Crore recognised in books of accounts for the financial year 2022-23 as compared to 
previous financial year 2021-22 which is not material.
 
ii) 
Other income 
 
 
Revenue in respect of interest/ late payment charges on delayed realizations from customers and cheque bounce charges, 
if any, is recognized on grounds of prudence and on the basis of certainty of collection.
 
 
Liquidated damages, if any are recognized at the time of recording the purchase of materials in books of accounts and the 
matter is considered settled by the management.
 
 
Interest income is recognized on time proportion basis taking into account the amount outstanding and the rate applicable. 
Interest income is recognised using effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash receipts through expected life of the financial asset to the gross carrying amount of the financial 
asset. When calculating the effective interest rate, the company estimates the expected cash flows by considering all the 
contractual terms of the financial instrument but does not consider the expected credit losses.
 
 
Dividend income is recognised, when the right to receive the dividend is established by the reporting date.
 
 
Investment property rental income is recognised as revenue on accrual basis as per the terms of the underlying contract.
 
 
Other operating income and misc. income are accounted on accrual basis as and when the right to receive arises.
(g) Borrowing
 
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings –interest bearing loans are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost by using the effective interest method (EIR method). Any difference between the 
proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption amount is recognised in profit or loss over the period of borrowing using 
the effective interest method (EIR). The EIR Amortization is included as Finance Costs in the statement of profit and loss.
 
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of loan to the extent that it is probable that 
some or all the facility will be drawn down.  In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw down occurs. To the extent there is no 
evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is deferred as a payment for liquidity 
services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
 
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. 
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred to another party and 
the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss as other 
income or other expenses as well as through the EIR amortization process.
 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability 
for at least 12 months after the reporting period. Where there is a breach of a material provision of a long term loan arrangement 
on or before the end of reporting period with the effect that the liability becomes payable on demand on the reporting date, the 
Company does not classify the liability as current, if the lender agreed, after the reporting period and before the approval of the 
financial statement for issue, not to demand payment as a consequence of the breach.
127
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(h) Borrowing Cost
 
The Company is capitalising general and specific borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction 
of qualifying asset up to the date of commissioning. Qualifying assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of 
time to get ready for their intended use or sale. The Expenses incurred in connection with the arrangement of specific 
borrowings are capitalized over the period of the borrowing and every year such cost is apportioned to assets based on the 
actual amount borrowed during the year. All other borrowing costs are recognized as expense in the period in which they are 
incurred and charged to the statement of profit and loss.
 
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowing pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is 
deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
(i) 
Investment in associate
 
The Company accounts for the investment in associate at cost.
(j) 
Financial Instruments
 
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument 
of another entity.
 
Financial Asset
 
Initial Recognition
 
A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet only when, the Company becomes party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
 
Initial Measurement
 
At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial asset or financial liability at its fair value plus or minus, in the case of a 
financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability, except trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing 
component, are measured at transaction price.
 
Subsequent Measurement
 
For purpose of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified into:
 
• 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost;
 
• 
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL); and
 
• 
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI).
 
The Company classifies its financial assets in the above mentioned categories based on:
 
• 
The Company’s business model for managing the financial assets, and
 
• 
The contractual cash flows characteristics of the financial asset.
 
A financial assets is measured at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met:
 
• 
The financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual 
cash flows and
 
• 
The contractual terms of the financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal 
and interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.
 
Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost is 
calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. 
The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the profit or loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the 
profit or loss. 
 
A financial asset is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if both of the following conditions are met:
 
• 
The financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting the contractual cash 
flows and selling financial assets and
 
• 
The assets contractual cash flows represent SPPI.
 
A financial asset is measured at fair value through profit or loss unless it is measured at amortised cost or at fair value through 
other comprehensive income. In addition, the Company is elected to designate a financial asset, which otherwise meets 
amortized cost or FVTOCI criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates a 
measurement or recognition inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’).
128
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
Equity Investments:
 
All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are held for trading are 
classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Company has made an irrevocable election to present in other 
comprehensive income subsequent changes in the fair value. The Company makes such election on an instrument by-
instrument basis. The classification is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
 
If the Company decides to classify an equity instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument, excluding 
dividends, are recognized in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to statement of profit and loss, even on sale 
of investment. However, the Company may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity. Equity instruments included within 
the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes recognized in the Profit and Loss.
 
De-recognition
 
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is primarily 
derecognised (i.e. removed from the Company's balance sheet) when:
 
1. 
The contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset have expired, or
 
2. 
The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the 
received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either
 
 
i) 
The Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or
 
 
ii) 
The Company has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset.
 
When the Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through 
arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership. When it has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Company 
continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of the Company’s continuing involvement. In that case, the Company 
also recognises an associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the 
rights and obligations that the Company has retained.
 
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original 
carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Company could be required to repay.
 
Embedded foreign currency derivative
 
Embedded foreign currency derivatives are not separated from the host contract if they are closely related. Such embedded 
derivatives are closely related to the host contract, if the host contract is not leveraged, does not contain any option feature and 
requires payments in one of the following currencies:
 
• 
the functional currency of any substantial party to that contract,
 
• 
the currency in which the price of the related good or service that is acquired or delivered is routinely denominated in 
commercial transactions around the world,
 
• 
a currency that is commonly used in contracts to purchase or sell non-financial items in the economic environment in 
which the transaction takes place (i.e. relatively liquid and stable currency).
 
Foreign currency embedded derivatives which do not meet the above criteria are separated and the derivative is accounted for 
at fair value through profit and loss. The Company currently does not have any such derivatives which are not closely related.
 
Impairment of Financial Assets
 
The Company assesses impairment based on expected credit loss (ECL) model to the following:
 
• 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
 
• 
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
 
Expected credit losses are measured through a loss allowance at an amount equal to:
 
• 
The 12-months expected credit losses (expected credit losses that result from those default events on the financial 
instrument that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date); or
 
• 
Full time expected credit losses (expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the life of the 
financial instrument).
 
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables or contract 
revenue receivables. Under the simplified approach, the Company is not required to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it 
recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs together with appropriate management estimates for credit loss 
at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
 
The Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on the portfolio of trade receivables. The 
provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the trade receivable and is adjusted 
for forward looking estimates. At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are updated and changes in the 
forward-looking estimates are analysed.
129
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized during the period is recognized as income/ expense in the statement of 
profit and loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the statement of Profit and Loss. The balance sheet 
presentation for various financial instruments is described below:
 
• 
Financial assets measured as at amortised cost and contractual revenue receivables - ECL is presented as an allowance, i.e., 
as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the balance sheet. The allowance reduces the net carrying 
amount. Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the company does not reduce impairment allowance from the gross 
carrying amount.
 
• 
Financial assets measured at FVTOCI - Since financial assets are already reflected at fair value, impairment allowance is not 
further reduced from its value. Rather, ECL amount is presented as accumulated impairment amount in the OCI.
 
For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, the Company combines financial instruments on the basis of shared 
credit risk characteristics with the objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable significant increases in credit risk 
to be identified on a timely basis.
 
The Company does not have any purchased or originated credit-impaired (POCI) financial assets, i.e., financial assets which are 
credit impaired on purchase/ origination.
 
Financial Liabilities
 
Initial recognition and measurement
 
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss for loans and 
borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, and financial liabilities 
measured at amortised value as appropriate.
 
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly 
attributable transaction costs.
 
The Company’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loan and borrowings including bank overdrafts, financial 
guarantee contracts and derivative financial instruments.
 
Subsequent measurement
 
• 
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
 
• 
Financial liabilities subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss
 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated 
upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are 
incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the profit 
or loss.
 
Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such at the initial date 
of recognition, and only if the criteria in Ind AS 109 are satisfied. For liabilities designated as FVTPL, fair value gains/ losses 
attributable to changes in own credit risk are recognized in OCI. These gains/ loss are not subsequently transferred to Profit and 
Loss. However, the Company is transferred the cumulative gain or loss within equity. All other changes in fair value of such 
liability are recognised in the statement of profit or loss. The Company has not designated any financial liability as at fair value 
through profit and loss.
 
Financial guarantee contracts
 
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the 
holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt 
instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction costs that are 
directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the amount of loss 
allowance determined as per impairment requirements of Ind AS 109 and the amount recognised less cumulative amortisation.
 
Loan and borrowings
 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Effective 
Interest Rate (EIR) method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as 
through the EIR amortisation process. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on 
acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement 
of profit and loss.
 
Trade and other payables
 
These amounts represent liability for goods and services provided to the Company prior to the end of financial year which are 
unpaid. Trade and other payables are presented as current liabilities unless payment is not due within 12 months after the 
reporting period. They are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
130
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
Lease liabilities
 
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, 
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the Company’s incremental 
borrowing rate. Subsequently, the lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
 
Derecognition
 
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability 
are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
(k) Offsetting financial instruments
 
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable 
right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal 
course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the group or the counterparty.
(l) 
Fair Value Measurement
 
The Company measures certain financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the 
asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
 
• 
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
 
• 
In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
 
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company. The fair value of an asset or a liability is 
measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market 
participants act in their economic best interest.
 
The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to 
measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
 
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair 
value hierarchy, described as under, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
 
• 
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 
• 
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or 
indirectly observable.
 
• 
Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is 
unobservable.
 
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
 
The Company's management determines the policies and procedures for both recurring fair value measurement, such as 
unquoted financial assets measured at fair value, and for non-recurring measurement, such as assets held for distribution in 
discontinued operations. The management comprises of the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer.
 
External valuers are involved for valuation of significant assets, such as unquoted financial assets. Involvement of external valuers is 
decided upon annually and approval by the management. Selection criteria include market knowledge, reputation, independence 
and whether professional standards are maintained. Valuers are normally rotated every three years. The management decides, 
after discussions with the Company's external valuers, which valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case.
 
At each reporting date, the management analyses the movements in the values of assets and liabilities which are required to be 
re-measured or re-assessed as per the Company’s accounting policies. For this analysis, the management verifies the major 
inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information in the valuation.
 
The management, in conjunction with the Company's external valuers, also compares the change in the fair value of each asset 
and liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change is reasonable.
 
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, 
characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
131
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
This note summarises accounting policy for fair value. Other fair value related disclosures are given in the relevant notes. 
(Refer note 45)
 
1. 
Disclosures for valuation methods, significant estimates and assumptions.
 
2. 
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy.
 
3. 
Investment in unquoted equity shares.
 
4. 
Financial instruments (including those carried at amortised cost).
(m) Inventories
 
Inventory of Gas (including inventory in pipeline and CNG cascades) is valued at lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is 
determined on weighted average cost method.
 
Stores, spares and consumables are valued at lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is determined on moving weighted 
average basis.
 
Inventories of Project materials (capital Inventory) are valued at cost on moving weighted average basis.
(n) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operation
 
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use and a sale is considered highly probable. They are measured at the lower of their carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell, except for assets such as deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits, 
financial assets and contractual rights under insurance contracts, which are specifically exempt from this requirement.
 
An impairment loss is recognised for any initial or subsequent write-down of the asset to fair value less costs to sell. A gain is 
recognised for any subsequent increases in fair value less costs to sell of an asset, but not in excess of any cumulative 
impairment loss previously recognised. A gain or loss not previously recognised by the date of the sale of the non-current asset 
(or disposal group) is recognised at the date of de-recognition.
 
Non-current assets are not depreciated or amortised while they are classified as held for sale. Non-current assets classified as 
held for sale are presented separately from the other assets in the balance sheet.
 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Company that has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and that 
represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of 
such a line of business or area of operations, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. The results of 
discontinued operations are presented separately in the statement of profit and loss.
(o) Foreign Currency Transactions
 
(i) 
Functional and Presentation Currency
 
 
Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the Company operates ('the functional currency'). The financial statements are presented in Indian rupee (INR), which is 
the functional and presentation currency of the Company.
 
(ii) Transactions and balances
 
 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates at the date of the 
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year-end exchange rates are 
generally recognised in profit or loss.
 
 
All foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the statement of profit and loss on a net basis within other income or 
other expenses.
 
 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency are 
translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. Translation differences on assets and 
liabilities carried at fair value are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
(p) Employee Benefits
 
Employees Benefits are provided in the books as per Ind AS -19 on “Employee Benefits” in the following manner:
 
A. 
Post-employment benefit plans
 
I. 
Defined Contribution Plan
 
 
Contribution towards provident fund for eligible employees are accrued in accordance with applicable statutes and 
deposited with the regulatory provident fund authorities (Government administered provident fund scheme). The 
Company does not carry any other obligation apart from the monthly contribution.
 
 
The Company contributes under the National Pension System scheme for eligible employees at a rate specified in the rules 
of the scheme and deposited with concerned agency/authority. 
 
 
The Company’s contribution is recognised as an expenses in the statement of Profit and Loss during the period in which the 
employee renders the related service.
132
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
II. 
Defined benefit plan
 
 
The company provides for gratuity, a defined benefit plan covering eligible employees in accordance with the Payment of 
Gratuity Act, 1972, through an approved Gratuity Fund. The Gratuity Fund is separately administered through a 
Trust/Scheme. Contributions in respect of gratuity are made to the approved Gratuity Fund. 
 
 
The Company's liability is actuarially determined by qualified actuary (using the Projected Unit Credit method) at the end of 
each year and is recognized in the Balance sheet as reduced by the fair value of Gratuity Fund. Actuarial losses/ gains are 
recognized in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income in the year in which they arise.
 
III. Long term employee benefits
 
 
The liability in respect of accrued leave benefits which are expected to be availed or en-cashed beyond 12 months from the 
end of the year, is treated as long term employee benefits. 
 
 
The Company's liability for leave benefits are actuarially determined by qualified actuary at balance sheet date by using 
the Projected Unit Credit method. Actuarial losses/ gains are recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the year in which 
they arise.
 
B. 
Other Long Term Service benefits
 
 
- Long Service Award (LSA):
 
 
On completion of specified period of service with the company, employees are rewarded with Cash Reward of different 
amount based on the duration of service completed.  
 
 
The Company's liability is actuarially determined by qualified actuary at balance sheet date at the present value of the 
amount payable for the same. Actuarial losses/ gains are recognized in the Statement of profit and loss in the year in which 
they arise.
 
C. 
Short term employee benefits
 
 
The undiscounted amount of short term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for services rendered by 
employees is recognized during the period when the employee renders the services. Short term employee benefits 
includes salary and wages, bonus, incentive, ex-gratia,death compensation and also includes accrued leave benefits, which 
are expected to be availed or en-cashed within 12 months from the end of the year.
 
D. 
Employee Stock Option Plan
 
 
Share-based compensation benefits are provided to employees via Employee Stock Option Plan. For the stock options 
granted, the fair value as of the date of grant of option is recognised as employee benefit expenses with a corresponding 
increase in Stock Options Outstanding Account. The total expense is recognised on straight line basis over the vesting 
period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
(q) Leases
 
The Company’s leased asset classes primarily consist of leases for land, buildings, plant & machinery equipment’s and vehicles.
 
Under Ind AS 116, the Company assesses whether a contract contains a lease, at the inception of the contract. A contract is, or 
contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Company assesses 
whether 
 
- 
the contract involves the use of identified asset; 
 
- 
the Company has substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the asset through the period of lease; and
 
- 
the Company has right to direct the use of the asset.
 
The Company evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to be a lease as per the requirements of Ind AS 116. Identification of a lease 
requires significant judgment. The Company uses significant judgement in assessing the lease term (including anticipated 
renewals/termination options) and the applicable discount rate.
 
 Company as a lessee
 
The Company recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is 
initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or 
before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the 
underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received.
 
Certain lease arrangement includes the options to extend or terminate the lease before the end of the lease term. The right-of-
use assets and lease liabilities includes these options when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.  
 
The right-of-use asset is subsequently amortized using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the earlier of 
the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use assets 
are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically 
reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain re-measurements of the lease liability.
133
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, 
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the Company’s incremental 
borrowing rate. The discount rate is generally based on the incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease being evaluated or 
for a portfolio of leases with similar characteristics.
 
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprises of fixed payments, including in-substance fixed 
payments, amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee and the exercise price under a purchase option that 
the Company is reasonably certain to exercise, lease payments in an optional renewal period if the Company is reasonably 
certain to exercise an extension option.
 
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured when there is a change in 
future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a change in the Company’s estimate of the amount 
expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or if Company changes its assessment of whether it will exercise a 
purchase, extension or termination option. 
 
When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-
use asset or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero. 
 
Modifications to a lease agreement beyond the original terms and conditions are generally accounted for as a re-measurement 
of the lease liability with a corresponding adjustment to the ROU asset. Any gain or loss on modification is recognized in the 
Statement of Profit & Loss. However, the modifications that increase the scope of the lease by adding the right to use one or 
more underlying assets at a price commensurate with the stand-alone selling price are accounted for as a separate new lease. In 
case of lease modifications, discounting rates used for measurement of lease liability and ROU assets is also suitably adjusted.
 
Lease liability and ROU lease asset have been separately presented in the Balance Sheet and lease payments have been 
classified as cash flows from financing activities.
 
Short-term leases, low-value assets and others:
 
The Company has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short term leases that have a lease term 
of less than or equal to 12 months with no purchase option and assets with low value leases. 
 
The Company recognises the lease payments associated with leases assets that have lease period of 12 month or less, 
remaining lease period of 12 months or less as on transition date, rental charges of low value assets, component of taxes of ROU 
lease charges,  non- lease component viz. manpower, fuel cost, repair and maintenance is recognised as an expense in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss over the lease term. The related cash flows are classified as operating activities.
 
 As a lessor
 
Finance lease
 
Leases for which the Company is a lessor is classified as finance or operating leases. When the terms of the lease transfer 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the contract is classified as a finance lease. All other leases are 
classified as operating leases.
 
All assets given on finance lease are shown as receivables at an amount equal to net investment in the lease. Principal component 
of the lease receipts is adjusted against outstanding receivables and interest income is accounted by applying the interest rate 
implicit in the lease to the net investment.
 
Operating lease
 
Lease income from operating leases where the Company is a lessor is recognised in income on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the relevant lease. In case of modification of contractual terms, the same is accounted as a new lease, considering any prepaid 
or accrued lease payments relating to the original lease as part of the lease payments for the new lease.
(r) Taxation
 
Income tax expenses comprises current tax (i.e. amount of tax for the period determined in accordance with the Income Tax Law) 
and deferred tax charge or credit (reflecting the tax effects of timing differences between accounting income and taxable income 
for the period). Income tax expenses are recognised in statement of profit or loss except tax expenses related to items recognised 
directly in reserves (including statement of other comprehensive income) which are recognised with the underlying items.
 
Income Taxes
 
The income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax payable on the current period's taxable income based on the applicable 
income tax rate for each jurisdiction adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary 
differences and to unused tax losses.
134
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the 
reporting period i.e. as per the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, as amended from time to time. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation 
including amount expected to be paid / recovered for uncertain tax positions. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the 
basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
 
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid and 
income tax provision arising in the same tax jurisdiction for relevant tax paying units and where the Company is able to and 
intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.
 
Deferred Taxes
 
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary difference arising between the tax bases of the assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in financial statements at the reporting date. Deferred tax are recognised in respect of deductible temporary 
differences being the difference between taxable income and accounting income that originate in one period and are capable of 
reversal in one or more subsequent periods., the carry forward of unused tax losses and the carry forward of unused tax credits. 
 
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the 
reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax 
liability is settled.
 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that 
future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences and losses.
 
Deferred tax assets are not recognised for temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax bases of investments in 
subsidiaries, branches and associates and interest in joint arrangements where it is not probable that the differences will reverse 
in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will not be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
 
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax bases of investments 
in subsidiaries, branches and associates and interest in joint arrangements where it is probable that the differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and 
when the deferred tax balances relate to the same taxation authority. Current tax assets and tax liabilities are offset where the 
Company has a legally enforceable right to offset and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the 
liability simultaneously.
 
Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in 
equity, respectively.
 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised 
deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that 
future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is 
subject to interpretation and considers whether it is probable that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment. 
The Company measures its tax balances either based on the most likely amount or the expected value, depending on which 
method provides a better prediction of the resolution of the uncertainty.
(s) Earnings Per Share
 
Basic earnings per share
 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the period. Earnings considered in ascertaining the company's earnings per share 
is the net profit for the period after deducting preference dividends, if any, and any attributable distribution tax thereto for 
the period. 
 
Diluted earnings per share
 
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take into account the after 
income tax effect of interest and other financing costs associated with dilutive potential equity shares and the weighted average 
number of additional equity shares that would have been outstanding assuming the conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
135
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(t) Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
 
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is 
probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provision for contractual obligation is disclosed based on management's 
assessment of the probable outcome with reference to the available information supplemented by experience of similar 
transactions. When the Company expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a 
separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense relating to a provision is presented in the 
statement of profit and loss net of any reimbursement.
 
Provision in respect of loss contingencies relating to claims, litigation, assessment, fines, penalties etc. are recognised when it is 
probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be estimated reliably.
 
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. Provisions for restructuring are recognised by the Company when it 
has developed a detailed formal plan for restructuring and has raised a valid expectation that the Company will carry out the 
restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
 
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by 
considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any 
one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
 
Provisions are measured at management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end 
of the reporting period and are not discounted to present value. The estimates of outcome and financial effect are determined by 
the judgment of the management, supplemented by experience of similar transactions and, in some cases, reports from 
independent experts.
 
The measurement of provision for restructuring includes only direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are both 
necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the Company.
 
Contingent liability is disclosed in the case of:
 
1. 
A present obligation arising from the past events, when it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation;
 
2. 
A present obligation arising from the past events, when no reliable estimate is possible;
 
3. 
A possible obligation arising from the past events, unless the probability of outflow of resources is remote.
 
Contingent liabilities are not provided for and if material, are disclosed by way of notes to financial statements. 
 
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence 
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the entity.
 
Contingent assets are not recognised in financial statements since this may result in the recognition of income that may never 
be realised. However, Contingent assets are assessed continually and if it is virtually certain that an inflow of economic benefits 
will arise, the asset and related income are recognised in the period in which the change occurs.
 
A contingent asset is disclosed by way of notes to financial statements, where an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
 
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
(u) Segment Reporting
 
The Company primarily operates in the segment of Natural Gas Business. Natural gas business involves distribution of gas from 
sources of supply to centres of demand and to the end customers. The Managing Director of the Company allocate resources 
and assess the performance of the Company, thus are the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The CODM monitors the 
operating results of the business as a single segment, hence no separate segment needs to be disclosed. 
(v) Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and deposits with banks and corporations. The Company considers all highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less and that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash to be 
cash equivalents.
 
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, deposits held 
at call with financial institutions and other short term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less 
that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
(w) Statement of Cash Flows
 
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, whereby profit before tax is adjusted for the effects of transactions of a non-
cash nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or payments and item of income or expenses 
associated with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities of the 
Company are segregated.
136
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(x) Dividends
 
The Company recognises a liability for dividends to equity holders of the Company when the dividend is authorised and the 
dividend is no longer at the discretion of the Company. As per the corporate laws in India, a dividend is authorised when it is 
approved by the shareholders. A corresponding amount is recognised directly in equity.
(y) Insurance Claims 
 
The company accounts for insurance claims when there is certainty that the claims are realizable and acknowledged by 
insurance company and amount recognized in books of accounts is as under:
 
• 
In case of loss of asset /goods by transferring, either the carrying cost of the relevant asset / goods or insurance value 
(subject to deductibles), whichever is lower under the head “Claims Recoverable-Insurance”. 
 
• 
In case insurance claim is, less than carrying cost the difference is charged to Profit and Loss statement. As and when claims 
are finally received from insurer, the difference, if any, between Claims Recoverable-Insurance and claims received is 
adjusted to Profit and Loss statement.
(z) Events occurring after the Reporting Date
 
Adjusting events (that provides evidence of condition that existed at the balance sheet date) occurring after the balance sheet 
date are recognized in the financial statements. Material non adjusting events (that are inductive of conditions that arose 
subsequent to the balance sheet date) occurring after the balance sheet date that represents material change and commitment 
affecting the financial position are disclosed in the Board’s Report. Further, the shareholders of the Company have the power to  
amend the financial statements after the same has been authorized for issue by Board of Directors as per the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
(aa) Exceptional Items
 
Certain occasions, the size, type or incidence of an item of income or expense, pertaining to the ordinary activities of the 
Company is such that its disclosure improves the understanding of the performance of the Company, such income or expense is 
classified as an exceptional item and accordingly, disclosed in the notes accompanying to the financial statements.
(ab) Prior Period Adjustments and Pre-paid Expenses. 
 
Income / expenditure in aggregate pertaining to prior year(s) above the threshold limit are corrected retrospectively. Prepaid 
expenses up to threshold limit in each case, are charged to revenue as and when incurred.
(ac) Rounding off
 
All amounts disclosed / presented in Indian Rupees (INR) in the financial statements and notes have been rounded off to the 
nearest two decimals of Crores as per the requirements of Schedule III, unless otherwise stated.
(ad) Recent accounting pronouncements
 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments to the existing standards under Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. On March 31, 2023, MCA amended the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 by issuing the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023, 
applicable from April 1, 2023, as below:
 
Ind AS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements
 
The amendments require companies to disclose their material accounting policies rather than their significant accounting 
policies. Accounting policy information, together with other information, is material when it can reasonably be expected to 
influence decisions of primary users of general-purpose financial statements. The Company does not expect this amendment to 
have any significant impact in its financial statements.
 
Ind AS 12 – Income Taxes
 
The amendments clarify how companies account for deferred tax on transactions such as leases and decommissioning 
obligations. The amendments narrowed the scope of the recognition exemption in paragraphs 15 and 24 of Ind AS 12 
(recognition exemption) so that it no longer applies to transactions that, on initial recognition, give rise to equal taxable and 
deductible temporary differences. The Company is evaluating the impact, if any, in its financial statements.
 
Ind AS 8 – Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
 
The amendments will help entities to distinguish between accounting policies and accounting estimates. The definition of a 
change in accounting estimates has been replaced with a definition of accounting estimates. Under the new definition, 
accounting estimates are “monetary amounts in financial statements that are subject to measurement uncertainty”. Entities 
develop accounting estimates if accounting policies require items in financial statements to be measured in a way that involves 
measurement uncertainty. The Company does not expect this amendment to have any significant impact in its financial 
statements.
137
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
138
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 3.1  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (PPE)
Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) as at  31st March 2023 
(  in Crores)
`
Freehold Land 
 362.99  
 3.25  
 -    
 -    
 366.24  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 366.24  
 362.99 
Buildings 
 220.78  
 11.33  
 0.48  
 -    
 231.63  
 33.14  
 4.41  
 0.06  
 37.49  
 194.14  
 187.64 
Plant and Equipments 
 7,647.18  
 987.86  
 5.73  
 -    
 8,629.31  
 2,254.50  
 362.64  
 3.23  
 2,613.91  
 6,015.40  
 5,392.68 
Furniture and Fixture 
 19.80  
 1.23  
 0.10  
 -    
 20.93  
 12.95  
 1.30  
 0.08  
 14.17  
 6.76  
 6.85 
Computer Equipment 
 45.04  
 6.24  
 0.93  
 -    
 50.35  
 33.57  
 4.38  
 0.86  
 37.09  
 13.26  
 11.47 
Office Equipments 
 22.43  
 1.03  
 0.59  
 -    
 22.87  
 17.82  
 1.39  
 1.21  
 18.00  
 4.87  
 4.61 
Vehicles 
 9.21  
 -    
 0.59  
 -    
 8.62  
 7.69  
 0.34  
 0.56  
 7.47  
 1.15  
 1.52 
Books and Periodicals 
 0.10  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 0.10  
 0.10  
 -    
 -    
 0.10  
 -    
 -   
Total PPE 
 8,327.53  
 1,010.94  
 8.42  
 -    
 9,330.05  
 2,359.77  
 374.46  
 6.00  
 2,728.23  
 6,601.82  
 5,967.76 
Freehold Land 
 389.38  
 2.92  
 -    
 (29.31) 
 362.99  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 362.99  
 389.38 
Buildings 
 204.29  
 16.49  
 -    
 -    
 220.78  
 28.97  
 4.14  
 (0.03) 
 33.14  
 187.64  
 175.32 
Plant and Equipments 
 6,825.56  
 825.57  
 3.95  
 -    
 7,647.18  
 1,930.92  
 326.21  
 2.63  
 2,254.50  
 5,392.68  
 4,894.64 
Furniture and Fixture 
 19.64  
 0.71  
 0.55  
 -    
 19.80  
 12.14  
 1.32  
 0.51  
 12.95  
 6.85  
 7.50 
Computer Equipment 
 47.23  
 0.94  
 3.13  
 -    
 45.04  
 31.88  
 4.67  
 2.98  
 33.57  
 11.47  
 15.35 
Office Equipments 
 21.93  
 1.54  
 1.04  
 -    
 22.43  
 17.47  
 1.33  
 0.98  
 17.82  
 4.61  
 4.46 
Vehicles 
 9.05  
 0.26  
 0.10  
 -    
 9.21  
 7.44  
 0.35  
 0.10  
 7.69  
 1.52  
 1.61 
Books and Periodicals 
 0.10  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 0.10  
 0.10  
 -    
 -    
 0.10  
 -    
 -   
Total PPE 
 7,517.18  
 848.43  
 8.77  
 (29.31) 
 8,327.53  
 2,028.92  
 338.02  
 7.17  
 2,359.77  
 5,967.76  
 5,488.26
Gross Block
Gross Block
Particulars
Particulars
Depreciation and Amortization 
Depreciation and Amortization 
Net Block
Net Block
Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) as at  31st March 2022 
                   (  in Crores) 
`
Note 3.1.1 - Impairment of Assets : There is no impairment of any assets in terms of Ind AS - 36  on “Impairment of Assets”.  Based on the review, the management is of the opinion that there are no 
impairment indicators that necessitate any adjustments to the carrying value of PPE. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3.1.2 - The company has not carried out revaluation of PPE. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3.1.3 - The company has elected to measure all its PPE at the previous GAAP carrying amount i.e. March 31, 2015 as its deemed cost on the date of transition to Ind AS i.e. April 01, 2015.
Note 3.1.4 - Security Pledge of Assets : Refer to Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security. 
 
 
 
 
Note 3.1.5 - Refer to note 43 for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
Note 3.1.6 - There is no restriction on the title of property, plant and equipments.
Note 3.1.7 - 'Other Adjustments' in financial year 2021-22 is on account of change in presentation from freehold land to ROU assets (Lease hold land).-Refer note 5.3
As at 31st
March 2022
As at 31st
March 2021
As at 31st 
  
 
March 2023
As at 31st 
  
 
March 2022
As at 31st 
  
 
 
March 2023
As at 31st 
  
 
 
March 2022
Disposal/
Adjustment
Disposal/
Adjustment
For the year
For the year
As at 31st 
March 2023
As at 31st 
March 2022
Other 
Adjustments
Other 
Adjustments
Disposal/
Adjustment
Disposal/
Adjustment
Addition
Addition
 As at 1st 
April 2022 
 As at 1st 
April 2021 
 As at 1st 
April 2022
 As at 1st 
April 2021 
 
 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
139
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 3.1.8 - Above note 3.1 includes following assets acquired through Business combination transaction in the financial year 2021-22 (Refer note 56): 
  
(  in Crores)
`
Freehold Land 
 1.17  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 1.17  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 1.17  
 1.17 
Plant and Equipments 
 45.43  
 37.55  
 -    
 -    
 82.98  
 3.52  
 1.52  
 -    
 5.04  
 77.94  
 41.91 
Total 
 46.60  
 37.55  
 -    
 -    
 84.15  
 3.52  
 1.52  
 -    
 5.04  
 79.11  
 43.08 
Gross Block
Particulars
Depreciation and Amortization 
Net Block
As at 31st 
  
March 2021
As at 1st 
November
 2021
As at 1st 
November
 2021
Disposal/
Adjustment
For the year
As at 1st 
November
 2021
Other 
Adjustments
Disposal/
Adjustment
Addition
 As at 1st 
April 2021 
 As at 1st 
April 2021 
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March, 2023
Note 3.1  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (PPE) (Continued...)
Note 3.1.9- Details of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in favor of the lessee) whose title deeds are 
not held in the name of the Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title Deeds of Immovable Properties:
Property, 
Plant & 
Equipment 
- Freehold 
Land
Land-Survey No. 
306-A-/1 paiki 3, 
Post-Hazira, 
Taluka Choryasi, 
District-Surat 
(13,057 Sq. Mtrs)
Land-Survey No. 
150 Mora village  
District-Surat 
(13,557 Sq. Mtrs)
Survey No. 896 
and 913/2 Vil 
Ichchhapur Hazira 
6,559 Sq. Mtrs
` 15.88 
Crores
` 1/-.
` 
21.35/- 
Crores
` 15.88 
Crores
` 1/-.
` 
21.35/- 
Crores
Government 
of Gujarat
Government 
of Gujarat
Gujarat 
State 
Petroleum 
Corporation 
Limited
Promoter
Promoter
Promoter
01-05-1999
05-04-2002
01-04-2006
The legal dispute between the Government and Hazira Apbal Ganotiya Sahakari Mandali 
Ltd.(seller)  regarding transfer or sale of land to private parties (including GGL) without 
necessary permission and breached the condition of utilization of land and in one of the order 
issued by Deputy Collector Choryasi Prant Surat dated 7th August 2009 clearly states that 
there is no breach of condition in case of GGL and land owners as Government has given 
permission to allocate land to Gujarat Gas subject to necessary payment of premium etc.
Land belongs to the Government and allotted under Navi sharat to private parties (seller) 
from whom GGL brought the land and later on land was made khalsa on 18.04.2002. In April 
2010, Mamlatdar Office Choryasi had given revised letter to submit consent for making the 
2.5 times premium of the value to regularize the land to Gujarat Gas that may be decided by 
the District Valuation Committee.
Acquired through demerger scheme and transfer of name yet not completed.
Yes
Yes
No
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Disputed?
Reason for not being held in the name of the Company
Whether title deed holder 
is a promoter, director or 
relative of promoter 
director or employee of 
promoter/ director
Title deeds 
held in the 
name of
Gross 
carrying 
value
as on 31 
March 
2022
Gross 
carrying 
value
as on 31 
March 
2023
Description of 
item of property
Property 
held since 
which date
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 3.2 CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS 
   (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
March 2023 
March2022
Capital Inventory   
 
449.10  
 375.46 
Capital Work-in-Progress (project under construction) 
 
508.50  
590.45 
Total  
 
957.60  
 965.91 
Capital work in progress 
As at 1st
 
November 2021
Capital Inventory   
0.14 
Capital Work-in-Progress (project under construction) 
4.23
Total  
4.37
Note 3.2.1 Ageing Schedule
As on 31 March 2023: 
   (  in Crores)
`
As on 31 March 2022: 
   (  in Crores)
`
Note 3.2.2 -  Above note 3.2 includes following assets acquired through Business combination transaction in the financial 
 
 
year 2021-22  (Refer note 56) 
(  in Crores)
`
Projects in Progress 
 779.54  
 111.81  
 25.96  
 45.11  
 962.42 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 0.02  
 0.00  
 2.17  
 1.29  
 3.49 
Total 
 779.56  
 111.81  
 28.13  
 46.40  
 965.91 
Note:- Security Pledge of Assets : Refer to Note 20 on borrowings for details of security pledge of assets.
The Company is engaged in the business of City Gas Distribution (CGD) in India which involves distribution of gas from sources of 
supply to the end user customers. The CGD project is designed considering demand, supply and future requirements based on the 
facilities envisaged for CGD network in authorised areas for 25 years on the basis of authorization from Petroleum and Natural Gas 
Regulatory Board (PNGRB) to lay, build, operate or expand city or local natural gas distribution network. On the basis of demand 
projections, the CGD network is planned. Project execution plans are modulated on the basis of continuous ongoing expansion and all 
the projects are executed and expanded on ongoing basis as per rolling annual plan. Hence, it is considered that there is no project 
whose completion is overdue or has exceed its cost compared to its original plan.
140
Capital work in progress
Less than 1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
Amount in CWIP for a period of
More than 3 Years
Total
Projects in Progress 
 730.24  
 155.04  
 33.61  
 35.56  
 954.45 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 0.03  
 0.51  
 0.03  
 2.58  
 3.15 
Total 
 730.27  
 155.55  
 33.64  
 38.14  
 957.60 
Capital work in progress
Less than 1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
Amount in CWIP for a period of
More than 3 Years
Total
Note 4 - INVESTMENT PROPERTY 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
March 2023  
March 2022
Freehold land
Balance at the beginning of the period 
 1.30  
 1.30 
Add:- Acquisition during the year 
 -    
 -   
Less:- Deletion during the year 
 -    
 -   
Balance at the end of the period 
 1.30  
 1.30 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
 
Till Financial Year 2021 – 22, the Company had recognized the rental – facilitation fees on Investment property for the financial 
years 2016-17 and 2017-18 on the basis of provisional working submitted by tenants and for financial year 2018-19, 2019-
20, 2020-21 and 2021-22 on the basis of previous years working, as no further working of rental -facilitation fees was  
submitted by tenants post FY 2017-18. In this regard, the company was contesting the issue of valuation of land for rental – 
facilitation fees with tenant. During the year, the issue was resolved and hence, the Company has recognized rental – facilitation 
fees of ` 1.15 Crores till March 31, 2022 being difference between rental – facilitation fees agreed with tenant and the fees 
recognized so far on provisional basis. On similar lines, the Company has recognized rental – facilitation fees of ` 0.46 Crores for 
the financial year 2022-23.
(ii) 
 Contractual Obligations
 
The Company has no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property or for its repair, 
maintenance or enhancements. 
(iii)  Leasing Arrangements 
 
 
 
The investment property is leased to tenant under long term operating leases with rentals payable annually as per the formula 
given in the agreement executed by both the parties. The lease period  is 10 years(extendable as mutually agreed). Either party 
can terminate the agreement by giving 6 months notice(Non cancellable period). The future lease payments receivables can 
not be determined as the amount of rent is dependent on variable lease payment factors.
(iv) Fair Value 
 
 
   (` in Crores)
141
Note 4.1.  Details of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements 
are duly executed in favor of the lessee) whose title deeds are not held in the name of the Company.
Title Deeds of Immovable Properties:
As on 31 March 2023:
As on 31 March 2022:
Investment 
Property
Nil
Investment 
Property - 
Freehold 
Land
Survey No. 477 
Village Dasarath, 
District-
Vadodara 2,002 
Sq. Mtrs
` 1.30 
Crores
Gujarat State 
Petroleum 
Corporation 
Limited
Promoter
01-04-2006
Acquired through 
demerger scheme 
and transfer of 
name was under 
process.
No
Relevant 
line item in 
the Balance 
sheet
Relevant 
line item in 
the Balance 
sheet
Disputed?
Disputed?
Reason for not 
being held in the 
name of the 
Company
Reason for not 
being held in the 
name of the 
Company
Whether title deed holder 
is a promoter, director or 
relative of promoter / 
director or employee of 
promoter/director
Whether title deed holder 
is a promoter, director or 
relative of promoter / 
director or employee of 
promoter/director
Title deeds 
held in the 
name of
Title deeds 
held in the 
name of
Gross 
carrying 
value
as on 31st 
March 2023
Gross 
carrying 
value
as on 31st 
March 2022
Description of 
item of 
property
Description of 
item of 
property
Property 
held since 
which date
Property 
held since 
which date
(i) 
 Amount recognised in profit and loss for investment properties 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Rental Income 
 1.61  
 0.20 
Profit from investment properties 
 1.61  
 0.20 
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Investment Properties 
 3.20  
 3.20 
 
Estimation of Fair Value
 
The fair value of investment property is based on the valuation by a registered  valuer as defined under rule 2 of Companies 
(Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017.
 
The Company obtains independent valuations for its investment properties once in every three to five years interval. Last fair 
valuation was done on 31st March 2021. 
 
(v) 
Security Pledge : Refer to Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security. 
 
(vi)  There is no restriction on the title and realisability of investment property or remittance of income and proceeds of disposals.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 5.1.1- Right of Way (ROW) Permissions: The useful lives of Right of Way (ROW) Permissions as estimated by the management for the amortization is 30 years. The useful lives of ROW Permission are 
inextricably linked with the pipeline networks being laid, which corresponds with the useful life of 30 years of Plant and Machinery - Pipelines network for which the Right of Way (ROW) Permission has 
been obtained. The Useful life of 30 years of the Right of Way (ROW) Permissions is dependent on the useful life of Plant and Machinery - Pipelines i.e. Pipeline network of the company.
Note 5.1.2- Right of Use (ROU): The company acquires the ‘Right of Use’ (hereinafter referred to as ‘ROU’) for the purpose of laying and maintenance of the underground pipeline and vests in the company and the 
company has the right to use the same in the manner for which it has been acquired. The acquisition of ROU is governed by the legal process as per the Act, the company has paid the compensation 
/consideration of the ROU -land determined by the competent authority under the Act and any person authorised by the company, have unrestricted right of entry and lay pipeline or do any other act 
necessary for the purpose of laying of pipeline. 
 
The company has disclosed the cost incurred for acquisition of ROU as ‘Right of Use’ in the Intangible Asset schedule. Since the ROU does not have a defined life, it is perpetual in nature. Accordingly based 
on requirements of Ind AS 38 – Intangible Assets, the same is tested for impairment and not amortised. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 5.1.3- Impairment of Assets: There is no impairment of any assets in terms of Ind AS - 36  on “Impairment of Assets”.  Based on the review, the management is of the opinion that there are no impairment 
indicators that necessitate any adjustments to the carrying value of intangible assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 5.1.4- Security Pledge of Assets: Refer to Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security. 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 5.1.5- Refer to note 43 for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 5.1.6- The company has not carried out revaluation of Intangible assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 5.1.7- The company has elected to measure all its Intangible assets at the previous GAAP carrying amount i.e. March 31, 2015 as its deemed cost on the date of transition to Ind AS i.e. April 01, 2015.
Note 5.1.8- There is no restriction on the title of intangible assets.
 
As at 1st  
Addition  
Disposal/ 
As at 31st 
As at 1st  
For the 
Disposal/  
As at 31st 
As at 31st 
As at 31st  
 
April 2022 
 
Adjustment 
March2023 
April 2022 
Year 
Adjustment 
March2023 
March 2023 
March 2022
ROW Permissions 
 441.45  
 86.58  
 0.91  
 527.12  
 76.26  
 15.68  
 0.24  
 91.70  
 435.42  
 365.19 
ROU  
 14.24  
 0.31  
 -    
 14.55  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 14.55  
 14.24 
Software and other Intangibles 
 105.26  
 10.48  
 0.01  
 115.73  
 80.77  
 8.78  
 0.01  
 89.54  
 26.19  
 24.49 
Total Intangible Assets 
 560.95  
 97.37  
 0.92  
 657.40  
 157.03  
 24.46  
 0.25  
 181.24  
 476.16  
 403.92 
 
As at 1st  
Addition  
Disposal/ 
As at 31st 
As at 1st  
For the 
Disposal/  
As at 31st 
As at 31st 
As at 31st  
 
April 2021 
 
Adjustment 
March2022 
April 2021 
Year 
Adjustment 
March 2022 
March 2022 
March 2021
ROW Permissions 
 400.91  
 40.54  
 -    
 441.45  
 62.22  
 14.04  
 -    
 76.26  
 365.19  
 338.69 
ROU  
 14.98  
 0.12  
 0.86  
 14.24  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 14.24  
 14.98 
Software and other Intangibles 
 97.99  
 8.15  
 0.88  
 105.26  
 73.72  
 7.93  
 0.88  
 80.77  
 24.49  
 24.27 
Total Intangible Assets 
 513.88  
 48.81  
 1.74  
 560.95  
 135.94  
 21.97  
 0.88  
 157.03  
 403.92  
 377.94 
Gross Block
Gross Block
Particulars
Particulars
 Amortization 
 Amortization 
Net Block
Net Block
Intangible assets as at 31st March 2022 
 (  in Crores) 
`
Intangible assets as at 31st March 2023 
(  in Crores)
`
Note 5.1 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
142
 
As at 1st  
Addition  
Disposal/ 
As at 1st 
As at 1st  
For the 
Disposal/  
As at 1st 
As at 1st 
As at 31st  
 
April 2021 
 
Adjustment 
November 
April 2021 
Year 
Adjustment 
November 
November 
March 2021
 
 
 
 
2021 
 
 
 
2021 
2021
ROW Permissions 
 27.68  
 1.73  
 -    
 29.41  
 1.36  
 0.57  
 -    
 1.92  
 27.49  
 26.32 
Total 
 27.68  
 1.73  
 -    
 29.41  
 1.36  
 0.57  
 -    
 1.92  
 27.49  
 26.32 
Gross Block
Particulars
 Amortization 
Net Block
Note 5.1.9- Above note 5.1 includes following assets acquired through Business combination transaction in the financial year 2021-22 (Refer note 56):
 (  in Crores)
`
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
143
 Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
Note 5.2.1 Ageing Schedule
As on 31 March 2023: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
(  in Crores)
`
As on 31 March 2022: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
(  in Crores)
`
The Company is engaged in the business of City Gas Distribution (CGD) in India which involves distribution of gas from sources of supply to the end user customers. The CGD project is designed 
considering demand, supply and future requirements based on the facilities envisaged for CGD network in authorised areas for 25 years on the basis of authorization from Petroleum and 
Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) to lay, build, operate or expand city or local natural gas distribution network. On the basis of demand projections, the CGD network is planned. Project 
execution plans are modulated on the basis of continuous ongoing expansion and all the projects are executed and expanded on ongoing basis as per rolling annual plan. Hence, it is considered 
that there is no project whose completion is overdue or has exceed its cost compared to its original plan.
Note 5.2. INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st March 2023 
As at 31st March 2022
Right of Use (ROU) 
0.01  
 0.06 
Right of Way (ROW) Permissions 
25.50  
 25.86
SAP SuccessFactors Implementation Project 
 -    
 0.47
Total  
 25.51  
 26.39 
Projects in Progress 
 13.13  
 3.77  
 5.04  
 2.21  
 24.16 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 -    
 -    
 0.00  
 1.35  
 1.35 
Total 
 13.13  
 3.77  
 5.04  
 3.56  
 25.51 
Projects in Progress 
 11.53  
 10.08  
 1.73  
 0.58  
 23.93 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 -    
 0.00  
 0.86  
 1.60  
 2.46 
Total 
 11.53  
 10.08  
 2.60  
 2.18  
 26.39 
Intangible assets under development
Intangible assets under development
Less than 1 Year
Less than 1 Year
1-2 Years
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
2-3 Years
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Amount in CWIP for a period of
More than 3 Years
More than 3 Years
Total
Total
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
144
Note 5.3- RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Right-of-use assets (Leases) as at 31st March 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(  in Crores)
`
Note 5.3.1 - "Other adjustment" in financial year 2021-22 includes change from freehold land to ROU assets (Lease hold land) ` 29.31 Crores. Consequent to this, effect of amortisation, 
which is not significant, is given in previous financial year.
Note 5.3.2 - The company has not carried out revaluation of ROU assets.
Right-of-use assets (Leases) as at 31st March 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(  in Crores)
`
Gross Block
Gross Block
Particulars
Particulars
 Amortization 
 Amortization 
Net Block
Net Block
 
As at 1st  
Addition  
Disposal/ 
Other 
As at 31st 
As at 1st  
For the 
Disposal/  
Other 
As at 31st 
As at 31st 
As at 31st  
 
April 2022 
 
Adjustment 
Adjustments/ March 2023 
April 2022 
Year 
Adjustment Adjustments/ March 2023 March 2023 March 2022
 
 
 
 Reassessment 
 
 
 
 Reassessment
Land 
 157.09  
 9.31  
 2.42  
 0.04  
 164.02  
 12.29  
 4.46  
 0.12  
 -    
 16.63  
 147.39  
 144.80 
Buildings 
 6.84  
 3.85  
 2.96  
 -    
 7.73  
 3.54  
 1.69  
 1.97  
 -    
 3.26  
 4.47  
 3.30 
Plant and Equipments 
 31.31  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 31.31  
 5.98  
 2.09  
 -    
 -    
 8.07  
 23.24  
 25.33 
Vehicles 
 94.89  
 20.58  
 1.78  
 -    
 113.69  
 10.10  
 21.10  
 0.80  
 -    
 30.40  
 83.29  
 84.79 
Total 
 290.13  
 33.74  
 7.16  
 0.04  
 316.75  
 31.91  
 29.34  
 2.89  
 -    
 58.36  
 258.39  
 258.22 
 
As at 1st  
Addition  
Disposal/ 
Other 
As at 31st 
As at 1st  
For the 
Disposal/  
Other 
As at 31st 
As at 31st 
As at 31st  
 
April 2021 
 
Adjustment 
Adjustments/ March 2022 
April 2021 
Year 
Adjustment Adjustments/ March 2022 March 2022 March 2021
 
 
 
 Reassessment 
 
 
 
 Reassessment
Land 
 124.15  
 3.62  
 0.33  
 29.65  
 157.09  
 6.29  
 5.87  
 0.20  
 0.33  
 12.29  
 144.80  
 117.86 
Buildings 
 7.24  
 -    
 0.40  
 -    
 6.84  
 2.53  
 1.36  
 0.35  
 -    
 3.54  
 3.30  
 4.71 
Plant and Equipments 
 31.31  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 31.31  
 3.89  
 2.09  
 -    
 -    
 5.98  
 25.33  
 27.42 
Vehicles 
 26.21  
 77.56  
 8.88  
 -    
 94.89  
 3.38  
 15.60  
 8.88  
 -    
 10.10  
 84.79  
 22.83
Total 
 188.91  
 81.18  
 9.61  
 29.65  
 290.13  
 16.09  
 24.92  
 9.43  
 0.33  
 31.91  
 258.22  
 172.82 
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March, 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
145
Right-of-
use assets 
(Leases)
NIL
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Disputed?
Reason for not 
being held in the 
name of the 
Company
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative# 
of promoter*/ 
director or employee 
of promoter/ director
Title 
deeds 
held in 
the 
name of
Gross 
carrying 
value
as on 31 
March 
2023
Description of item of property
Property 
held since 
which 
date
Right-of-
use assets 
(Leases)-
Land
Indian Red Cross Society, District 
branch, Bhathinda
Survey no - 593 Village Sivian HB 
no. 72 Tehsil and District Bhathinda
Revenue Survey no. Khasra no. 51/4, 
51/5, 51/6 and 51/7, Village - 
Fatehpur Rajputana, Tehsil Amritsar-
1, District - Amritsar
` 3.45 
Crores
` 0.81 
Crores
` 1.60 
Crores
Gujarat 
State 
Petronet 
Limited
Promoter
Business 
transfer 
agreement 
effective 
from 
01.11.2021. 
(Refer Note 
56)
Acquired through 
business transfer 
agreement effective 
from 01.11.2021. 
Transfer of name 
was under process.
No
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Disputed?
Reason for not 
being held in the 
name of the 
Company
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative# 
of promoter*/ 
director or employee 
of promoter/ director
Title 
deeds 
held in 
the 
name of
Gross 
carrying 
value
as on 31 
March 
2022
Description of item of property
Property 
held since 
which 
date
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 6 
NON- CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE 
 
   (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Investments in equity shares carried at cost (fully paid)
Unquoted Equity Shares
25000 (Previous year: 25,000) Fully Paid up Equity Shares of ` 10 each of  
 
0.03  
 0.03
Guj Info Petro Limited 
  
Total 
  
0.03  
 0.03 
 Extent of Holding  
 
49.94% 
49.94%
 Place of business/ country of incorporation  
 
 India  
 India
Description of method used to account for the investments (Cost or fair value) 
 
 At Cost  
 At Cost
Other information:-
(a) Aggregate amount of quoted investments and market value thereof; 
  
Nil  
 Nil 
(b) Aggregate amount of unquoted investments; and 
  
0.03  
 0.03
(c) Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments. 
  
Nil  
 Nil
Note 7  NON- CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : INVESTMENTS  
 
 
(` in Crores)
Figures INR 0.00 denotes amount less than INR 50,000/-.
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Investments in equity shares accounted through OCI (fully paid)
Unquoted Equity Shares 
 
2,00,00,000 (Previous year: 2,00,00,000) Fully Paid Up Equity Shares of  
 
30.38  
 22.36
` 1 each of Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited 
 
200 (Previous year: 200) Fully Paid Up Equity Shares of `  25 each of 
 
0.00 
0.00
Kalupur Co Op Comm Bank Limited [` 5000 (Previous year `  5000)] 
 
Total 
 
 30.38  
 22.36
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 5.3- RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (Continued...)
Note 5.3.3- Details of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favor of the lessee) whose title deeds are not held in the name of the Company.
Title Deeds of Immovable Properties :
As on 31 March 2023:
As on 31 March 2022:
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
March 2023 
March2022
(a) Aggregate amount of quoted investments and market value thereof; 
 
Nil 
 Nil 
(b) Aggregate amount of unquoted investments; and 
 
 30.38 
 22.36 
(c) Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments. 
 
 Nil 
 Nil 
Refer Note no. 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements
Note 8 
 NON- CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : LOANS  
(  in Crores)
`
Note 7 
NON- CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : INVESTMENTS (Continued...)
 
 
OTHER INFORMATION : 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
March 2023 
March2022
 Loan to Employees [Unsecured, considered good]  
  
2.74  
3.56
Total 
  
2.74  
3.56
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements 
 
Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security. 
 
Refer Note 51 for Loans to Promoters, Directors, KMPs and Related parties 
 
146
Note 9 
 NON- CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : OTHERS 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Security Deposits (Refer Note 9.1) 
 
 
To Related Parties [Unsecured, considered good]  
  
104.25  
 79.96 
 
To Others [Unsecured, considered good]  
  
75.16  
 64.04 
 
To Others [Credit impaired]  
 
 10.43  
 11.78 
 
 
 
189.84  
155.78
 
 Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful  
 
 (10.43) 
 (11.78)
 
 Less :Security Deposits adjustment for amortised cost  
  
(81.88) 
 (63.27)
Total Security Deposits  
 
 97.53  
 80.73
Receivable from employee [Unsecured, considered good] 
 
0.39 
0.54
Other Receivable [Considered Doubtful] 
 
0.36 
0.36
 
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful 
 
(0.36) 
(0.36)
Total 
 
 97.92  
 81.27 
Note no. 9.1: The Company has given refundable security deposits in form of fixed bank deposits to various project authorities to be 
held in their name and custody. It will be refunded after satisfactory completion of work. The company has therefore shown these 
fixed bank deposits amounting  51.09 Crores  (Previous Year  38.66 Crores) and interest accrued on such fixed bank deposits 
`
`
`
`
 8.62 Crores (Previous Year  7.81 Crores), till they are in custody with project authorities as “Security Deposits” under the Note- 
“Non- Current Financial Assets : Others” in the balance sheet. 
 
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements 
 
Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Note 11 INVENTORIES  
(  in Crores)
`
Note 12 CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : TRADE RECEIVABLES 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 Natural Gas  
  
16.92  
 14.16
 Stores and spares  
 
 41.37  
 39.23 
 Deferred delivery-Natural Gas (Goods in transit)  
  
2.89  
 - 
Total 
 
 61.18  
 53.39
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Trade Receivables (A)
 
Trade Receivables considered good - Secured 
 
245.56 
271.80 
 
Trade Receivables considered good - Unsecured (Backed by Bank guarantee) 
485.08 
430.07
 
Trade Receivables considered good - Unsecured (Others)  
 
 156.47 
 153.88
 
Trade Receivables - credit impaired 
 
 19.74  
 13.64
 
 
 Total  
 
906.85 
 869.39
 
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful 
 
 19.74 
 13.64
 
Total (A)  
 
 887.11 
 855.75
Unbilled Revenue (B) 
 
 134.04  
 74.30
Total (A+B) 
 
 1,021.15  
 930.05
For Valuation- Refer note 2(m) 
Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements
Refer Note 48 for Related party balances 
Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security. 
Refer Note 48 for Related party balances
Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
147
Note 10 OTHER NON- CURRENT ASSETS  
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Capital advances 
 
 
Capital advances [Unsecured, considered good] 
 
 123.87  
 142.54 
  
Capital advances [Credit Impaired] 
 
 2.78  
 3.63
 
 
 
 126.65  
 146.17
 
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful 
  
(2.78) 
 (3.63)
 
 
Total  
 123.87  
 142.54
Advance against expenses 
 
 
Other advances - [Unsecured, considered good] 
 
 0.07  
 1.30
Advance payment of income tax [Net of provisions] (Refer Note 30) 
 
42.70  
 45.26
Prepaid Expenses 
 
 128.35  
 109.26 
Balances with Government authorities for Litigations 
  
18.49  
 18.11
Balances with Government authorities - VAT credit refundable 
 
 148.40  
 117.57
Deferred employee benefit cost 
 
 2.14  
 2.87 
Other non-current assets 
 
0.03  
 0.03
Total 
  
464.05  
 436.94
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
148
Note 12.1 Trade Receivable ageing schedule:
As on 31 March 2023: 
(  in Crores)
`
As on 31 March 2022: 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars
Particulars
Outstanding for following period from due date of payment
Outstanding for following period from due date of payment
Total
Total
More than 
3 years
More than 
3 years
2-3 years
2-3 years
1-2 years
1-2 years
6 months- 
1 year
6 months- 
1 year
Less than 
6 months
Less than 
6 months
Not Due
Not Due
Unbilled
Unbilled
(i)  
Undisputed Trade Receivables -  
 -    
 796.93  
 75.06  
 3.85  
 1.14  
 0.34  
 0.78  
 878.10 
 
Considered good 
(ii)  Undisputed Trade Receivables  - 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 
which have significant increase 
 
in credit risk 
(iii)  Undisputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
 3.32  
 3.75  
 2.77  
 1.24  
 0.40  
 1.26  
 12.74 
 
Credit Impaired 
(iv)  Disputed Trade Receivables  -  
-    
 0.05  
 3.30  
 0.85  
 1.05  
 0.80  
 2.96  
 9.01 
 
Considered Good 
 
(v)  Disputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
 
which have significant increase 
 
in credit risk 
(vi)  Disputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
 -    
 0.36  
 1.07  
 1.23  
 0.77  
 3.57  
 7.00 
 
Credit Impaired 
(vii)  Unbilled 
 134.04  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 134.04 
Total   
134.04  
 800.30  
 82.47  
 8.54  
 4.66  
 2.31  
 8.57  
 1,040.89 
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(viii)  Allowance for doubtful - 
- 
 (3.32) 
 (3.75) 
 (2.77) 
 (1.24) 
 (0.40) 
 (1.26) 
 (12.74)
 
Undisputed Trade receivables 
(ix)   Allowance for doubtful - 
- 
 -    
 (0.36) 
 (1.07) 
 (1.23) 
 (0.77) 
 (3.57) 
 (7.00)
 
Disputed Trade receivables 
Net Trade Receivables 
 134.04  
 796.98  
 78.36  
 4.70  
 2.19  
 1.14  
 3.74  
 1,021.15 
(i)  
Undisputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -     739.39  
 102.54  
 5.14  
 2.08  
 0.62  
 1.22  
 850.97 
 
Considered good 
(ii)  Undisputed Trade Receivables  - 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 
which have significant increase 
 
in credit risk 
(iii)  Undisputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
 1.50  
 2.79  
 1.14  
 0.95  
 0.35  
 1.92  
 8.65 
 
Credit Impaired 
(iv)  Disputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
 0.05  
 0.93  
 0.30  
 0.56  
 0.54  
 2.39  
 4.77 
 
Considered Good 
(v)  Disputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
which have significant increase 
 
in credit risk 
(vi)  Disputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
 0.00  
 0.20  
 0.35  
 0.68  
 0.61  
 3.14  
 4.99 
 
Credit Impaired 
(vii)  Unbilled 
 74.30  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 74.30 
Total   
74.30  
 740.93  
 106.46  
 6.93  
 4.27  
 2.13  
 8.67  
 943.69 
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(viii)  Allowance for doubtful -  
-    
 (1.50) 
 (2.79) 
 (1.14) 
 (0.95) 
 (0.35) 
 (1.92) 
 (8.65)
 
Undisputed Trade receivables 
 
(ix)   Allowance for doubtful -  
-    
 (0.00) 
 (0.20) 
 (0.35) 
 (0.68) 
 (0.61) 
 (3.14) 
 (4.99)
 
Disputed Trade receivables 
 
Net Trade Receivables 
 74.30  
 739.43  
 103.47  
 5.44  
 2.63  
 1.17  
 3.61  
 930.05 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
149
Note 13   CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS   
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 (a) Balance with banks  
 
 
 Balance in bank account [with Sweep -In deposit facility]   
  
48.52 
17.98
 (b) Balance with financial Institutions  
 
 
Deposits with original maturity of three months or less
 
 
Intercorporate deposits/ Liquid deposits with Gujarat State Financial Services Ltd 
624.76 
-
(c)  Cash on hand  
  
1.42 
1.61
Total 
  
674.70  
19.59
 Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements  
 Refer Note 48 for Related party balances  
 Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.
Note 14   CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : OTHER BANK BALANCES 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Earmarked balances in unclaimed dividend accounts (Refer Note 14.1) 
  
1.35  
 1.52 
Earmarked balances in CSR account 
 
 4.91  
 -
Margin money or security against borrowings & guarantees 
 
 0.02  
 0.02
Total 
  
6.28  
 1.54
Note 14.1 : The balances in dividend accounts are not available for use by the Company and the money remaining unpaid will be 
deposited in the Investor Protection and Education Fund after the expiry of 7 years from the date they became due for payment. No 
amount is due at the end of the period for credit to Investor Protection and Education fund.
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements
Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 Loans to employees [Unsecured, considered good]  
 3.84  
 2.91
 Amount Receivable from ESOP Trust / Gratuity trust  
0.00 
 -
Total 
 3.84  
 2.91
Figures INR 0.00 denotes amount less than INR 50,000/-.
Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security. 
 
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements 
 
Refer Note 51 for Loans to Promoters, Directors, KMPs and Related parties
Note 16   CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : OTHERS 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 Unbilled Receivables-Other Income  
 0.46  
 0.99 
 Insurance claim receivable  
 0.07  
 0.05 
 Staff - Employee Advance  
 0.02  
 -   
 Receivable from employees  
 0.32  
 0.65 
 Other receivables [Unsecured, considered good]:-  
 
  
From Related parties  
 0.49  
 6.25 
  
From Others  
 8.50  
 8.86 
Total 
 9.86  
 16.80
 Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.  
 
 Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements  
 
 Refer Note 48 for Related party balances
Note 15    CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : LOANS  
(  in Crores)
`
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
150
 Note 17  CURRENT ASSETS : OTHERS  
   (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Advances for expenses
 
 To Related parties [Unsecured, considered good]  
 15.62  
 -   
 
 To Others [Unsecured, considered good]  
 10.56  
 10.79 
 
Advances for expenses[Credit Impaired]  
 0.13  
 -  
 
 
26.31  
 10.79
 
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful  
 (0.13) 
 -
 
 
 Total  
 26.18  
 10.79
Prepaid Expenses  
 30.62  
 27.78 
Prepaid Expenses-CSR  
 0.28  
 -   
Indirect Tax credit receivable (Excise, VAT, GST etc.)   
 23.34  
 29.18 
Balances with Government authorities - VAT credit refundable  
 120.06  
 292.46 
Deferred employee benefit cost  
 1.70  
 3.13 
Total 
 202.18  
 363.34
 Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security. 
 Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements 
 Refer Note 48 for Related party balances
Note 18  SHARE CAPITAL
Note 18.1 Authorised, issued, subscribed, fully paid up share capital 
  (  in Crores)
`
 
 
 
No. of shares 
Amount 
No. of shares Amount
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the period 
68,83,90,125  
 137.68  
68,83,90,125  
 137.68 
Add: Shares issued during the period  
-    
 -    
-    
 -   
Less: Changes during the period   
 -    
 -    
-    
 -   
Shares outstanding at the end of the period 
68,83,90,125  
 137.68  68,83,90,125   137.68 
Particulars 
 
As at 31st March 2023 
 As at 31st March 2022
 
 
Equity Shares of 
Equity Shares of
 
  
` 2 each fully paid 
` 2 each fully paid
Note 18.3 :  Terms/ rights attached to equity shares 
The company has only one class of equity shares having a face value of  2 per share (previous year  2 each). Each holder of equity 
`
 `
shares is entitled to one vote per share. The company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees. The dividend proposed by the 
Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
In the event of liquidation of the company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive residual assets of the company. The 
distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
 
 
 
No. of shares 
Amount 
No. of shares 
Amount
Authorised
Equity Shares of 2 each 
8,67,55,00,000   1,735.10   8,67,55,00,000  1,735.10 
`
7.5% Redeemable preference Shares of  10 each 
1,70,00,000  
 17.00  
1,70,00,000  
 17.00
`
Preference shares of  10 each 
 50,00,000  
 5.00  
50,00,000  
 5.00 
`
Issued, Subscribed and Paid up
Equity Shares of  2 each (fully paid-up) 
 68,83,90,125  
 137.68  
 68,83,90,125  
 137.68
`
Total  
68,83,90,125   137.68   68,83,90,125  
 137.68
Particulars 
 
As at 31st March 2023 
 As at 31st March 2022
Note 18.2 Reconciliation of shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period 
  (  in Crores)
`
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 18.4  Share holding by prescribed entities 
 
Out of Equity shares issued by the company, shares held by its holding company and their subsidiaries and associates are as 
under: 
 (  in Crores)
`
 
 
 
 
No. of Equity Amount 
No. of Equity Amount
 
 
 
 
Shares of 
 
Shares of 
 
 
 
 
` 2 each 
 
` 2 each
 
 
 
 
fully paid 
 
fully paid
(i) Gujarat State Petronet Limited  
 
 
37,28,73,995  
 74.57   37,28,73,995  
 74.57 
 
(current year :- Holding Company and previous year :- 
 
Holding Company)
(ii) Gujarat State Energy Generation Limited   
 
 
13,32,235  
 0.27  
 13,32,235  
 0.27 
 
(current year :-Associate of  Ultimate Holding Company and 
 
previous year :- Associate of  Intermediate Holding Company)
(iii)  Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited  
 
-    
 -     4,69,14,475  
9.38 
 
(current year :-NA and previous year :- 
 
Associate of  Ultimate Holding Company)*
(iv)  Gujarat Alkalies & Chemicals Limited  
 
 
-    
 -     2,13,15,785  
 4.26 
 
(current year :-NA and previous year :- 
 
Associate of  Ultimate Holding Company)* 
 
(v)  Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilizers & Chemicals Limited 
 
(current year :-NA and previous year :-  
 
 
-    
 -    
 2,66,445  
 0.05 
 
Associate of  Ultimate Holding Company)* 
 
 
 
151
Share Holder (Nature of Relationship) 
 
As at 31st March 2023   As at 31st March 2022
Note 18.5 Shareholders holding more than 5 % of total share capital
 
 
 
 
No. of 
% of  
No. of 
% of
 
 
 
 Shares held 
Holding 
Shares held 
Holding
 
 
 
 Equity Shares of ` 2 each   Equity Shares of ` 2 each
 
 
 
                fully paid 
                fully paid 
Gujarat State Petronet Limited 
 
 37,28,73,995  
54.17%  37,28,73,995  
54.17%
Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited 
 
  4,69,14,475  
6.82% 
 4,69,14,475  
6.82%
Government of Gujarat 
 
  4,49,77,310  
6.53% 
 4,49,77,310  
6.53%
Name of Shareholder  
 
As at 31st March 2023 
  As at 31st March 2022
Note 18.6 Disclosures of Shareholding of Promoters - Shares held by the Promoters:
Note 18.7 Details of Bought back of shares, Bonus Shares and Shares issue without payment being received in Cash:
The company has not bought back any equity shares, has not allotted any shares as fully paid up pursuant to contracts without 
payment being received in cash and has not allotted bonus shares during the period of five years immediately preceding the date of 
balance sheet. Further, there are no shares which are reserved for issue under options and contracts or commitments for the sale of 
shares or disinvestment.
Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited Equity 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
Gujarat State Petronet Limited 
Equity 
 37,28,73,995  
54.17% 
 37,28,73,995  
54.17% 
0.00%
Government of Gujarat 
Equity 
 4,49,77,310  
6.53% 
 4,49,77,310  
6.53% 
0.00%
Gujarat State Energy Generation Limited   
Equity 
 13,32,235  
0.19% 
 13,32,235  
0.19% 
0.00%
Total 
  41,91,83,540  60.89%  41,91,83,540  60.89%
Promoter name
 As at 31st March 2023
 As at 31st March 2022
Class 
of 
Shares
No. of 
Shares
No. of 
Shares
% of total 
shares
% of total 
shares
% Change 
during the 
year
*During the financial year 2022-23, there has been change in shareholding of Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited (GSPC) 
in lieu of which Gujarat State Investment Limited (GSIL) ceased to be holding company of GSPC w.e.f 19th October 2022.  
Consequently, GSIL has ceased to be Ultimate Holding company of Gujarat Gas Limited and GSPC has become ultimate holding 
company of Gujarat Gas Limited . Accordingly, equity shares held by Assocites of GSIL is not required to disclose as at 31st March 
2023.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Nature and purpose of reserves : 
 
 
 
General reserve 
 
 
 
 
The general reserve is used from time to time to transfer profits from retained earnings for appropriation purpose. As the general 
reserve is created by transfer from one component of equity to another and is not an item of other comprehensive income, 
items included in the general reserve will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss.
Amalgamation and Arrangement Reserve
 
The "Amalgamation and Arrangement Reserve", created pursuant to scheme of amalgamation and arrangement, is treated as 
free reserve based on the judgment of Honourable Gujarat High Court dated 18th April 2015 read with relevant other court 
decisions.
Retained Earnings
 
Retained earnings represents surplus / accumulated earnings of the company available for distribution to shareholders.
Capital Reserve
 
Capital Reserve not available for distribution of dividend and expected to remain invested permanently. 
 
Negative capital reserve represents difference between the consideration and carrying amount of net assets/liabilities acquired 
as per business transfer agreement for transactions among entities under common control.
Equity instrument through OCI
 
The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other 
comprehensive income. These changes are accumulated within the Equity instrument through OCI reserve within equity.
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
152
Note-19 OTHER EQUITY 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 
As at
 
  
31st March 2023 31st March 2022
(A) Reserves & Surplus 
 
General Reserve 
 
Opening Balance 
2.72  
 2.72 
 
Add/Less : Adjustment during the year 
 -    
 -   
 
Closing Balance 
 2.72  
 2.72 
Amalgamation and arrangement Reserve 
 
 
Opening Balance 
 879.59  
 879.59 
 
Add/Less : Adjustment during the year 
 -    
 -   
 
Closing Balance 
 879.59  
 879.59 
Capital Reserve  (Refer note 56)
 
Opening Balance 
 (23.98) 
 (23.98)   
 
Add/Less : Adjustment during the year 
-    
-
 
Closing Balance 
 (23.98) 
 (23.98)
Retained Earnings
 
Opening balance 
4,710.91  
 3,562.38 
 
Add: Profit during the year 
 1,525.47  
 1,285.64 
 
Remeasurement of post employment benefit obligation (net of tax) 
 2.30  
 0.57
 
Total 
6,238.68  
 4,848.59
Less : Appropriations
 
Dividend 
(137.68) 
 (137.68)
 
Closing Balance 
 6,101.00  
 4,710.91
Total (A) 
 6,959.33  
 5,569.24
(B) Equity instrument through OCI 
 
 
Opening Balance 
(107.63) 
 (109.75)
 
Add/Less : Change in fair value of equity instrument  
8.02  
 2.62
 
Add/Less : Income tax relating to above item 
(1.80) 
 (0.50)
Closing Balance (B) 
(101.41) 
 (107.63)
Total other equity (A+B) 
6,857.93  
 5,461.62
Note 18.8  Proposed Dividend:
The Board of Directors, in its meeting on 10th May, 2023, have proposed a final dividend of  6.65 per equity share (Face value of
`
 
 2/- each) for the financial year ended on 31st March,2023. The proposal is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual 
`
General Meeting and, if approved, would result in a cash outflow of  457.78 crores. 
 
`
The Board of Directors, in its meeting on 10th May, 2022, had proposed a final dividend of  2.00 per equity share (Face value of  2/- 
`
`
each) for the financial year ended on 31st March,2022.The proposal was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 
and this resulted in a cash outflow of   137.68 crores.
`
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
20.1   Term Loan from Banks 
     (  in Crores) 
`
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Current 
Current 
Non-Current 
Current
From banks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     HDFC Bank Term Loan II # 
NA (for Previous year: Quarterly  
NA 
NA 
 -    
 -    
 390.97  
 86.95  
  
Installment from March 2021 to
  
September 2027)
Total 
 
 
 
 -    
 -    
 390.97  
 86.95
Terms of repayment
Current Interest
Rate $
As at 31st March 2022
Maturity
As at 31st March 2023
Name of lender
Note  20 NON- CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES: BORROWINGS 
 
   (  in Crores)
`
#  During this financial year 2022-23, Company made pre-payment of term loans (HDFC Bank Term Loan II) of ` 446.60 Crores out of internal accruals of the company.
$  Interest rate is as on balance sheet date and interest on borrowing is payable on monthly basis.
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value measurements.
The details of security given for all loans  are as under : 
Secured Borrowings
Guarantee by Directors or others
Loan from related party  
 
Type of Loan 
As at 31st March 2023 
  
 As at 31st March 2022
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
For HDFC Bank RTL II:
A first ranking pari passu charge over movable fixed assets (both present and 
future) of the Borrower (except any ROU, ROW, any immovable fixed assets, lease 
assets and all other assets which are not permitted to be transferred in the name of 
the Borrower and/or creation of charge is not permissible in favor of the Bank).
None of the loan has been guaranteed by the directors or others
None of the loan has been taken from the related party(ies)
Note  20.2  The Company has obtained various borrowings from banks on basis of above security wherein submission of the quarterly returns/ statements of current assets is not 
required as per sanction letter.
 
Non-Current 
Current* 
Non-Current 
Current*
Term Loan from Banks (Refer Note 20.1) 
 -    
 -    
 390.97  
 86.95  
Total secured borrowings 
 -    
 -    
 390.97  
 86.95
Secured borrowings 
 
As at 31st March 2023 
  As at 31st March 2022
*For current maturities of long term borrowing amount disclosed under the head "Current Financial Liabilities: Borrowings" (Note 25) 
The Company does not have any defaults in repayment of loans and interest as at the reporting date.
153
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 21  LEASE LIABILITIES 
(  in Crores)
`
 
Non-Current 
Current 
Non-Current 
Current
Lease Liabilities (Refer note 50) 
123.93  
 28.39  
 125.33  
 22.45
Total 
123.93  
 28.39  
 125.33  
 22.45
Particulars 
 
As at 31st March 2023 
  As at 31st March 2022
Note 22  NON-CURRENT PROVISIONS 
(  in Crores)
`
Note 23  DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (Net) 
 (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Provision for employee benefits (Refer note 47) 
 
 
Provision for Long service benefits 
0.98  
 0.93 
 
Provision for leave encashment 
54.02  
 52.75 
 
Provision for Superannuation 
-    
 0.10
Total 
55.00  
 53.78
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
A. Deferred tax Liabilities
 
Tax effect of items constituting :  
 
 
Property, plant and equipment & Intangible assets 
909.08  
 858.81
 
Investments 
 6.19  
 4.39
 
Total - A  
 915.27  
 863.20
B. Deferred tax asset 
 
 
Tax effect of items constituting :  
 
 
Employee benefits 
14.26  
 14.90
 
Provisions 
30.57  
 18.14
 
Other items* 
24.34  
 22.44
 
Total - B 
 69.17  
 55.48
 
Deferred tax Liabilities (Net) (A-B) 
 846.10  
 807.72
(a) Deferred tax balances and movement for FY 2022-23 
(  in Crores)
`
*Other items includes effects of Leases (IND AS 116), Deferred revenue (IND AS115), financial instruments measurement etc.
Deferred tax Liabilities - Tax
effect of items constituting -  
 
 
 
 
 
Property, plant and equipment  
 858.81  
 
 50.27  
 -    
 -    
 909.08 
 
& Intangible assets 
 
Investments 
  4.39  
 
 -    
 1.80  
 -    
 6.19 
 
                                      Total 
  863.20  
 -    
 50.27  
 1.80  
 -    
 915.27
Deferred tax asset- Tax
effect  of items constituting -
 
Employee benefits 
  14.90  
 
 0.14  
 (0.77) 
 
 14.26
 
Provisions 
 18.14  
 
 12.43  
 -    
 
 30.57 
 
Other items 
  22.44  
 
 1.90  
 -    
 
 24.34 
 
                                      Total 
   55.48  
 -    
 14.47  
 (0.77) 
 -    
 69.17 
Net deferred tax Liabilities 
 807.72  
 -    
 35.80  
 2.57  
 -    
 846.10 
154
Particulars 
As at 
     Recognised in profit or loss 
Recognised 
Other 
    As at
 
 
1st April  
Restatement  
Others 
in OCI 
Adjustments 31st March
 
 
2022 
 
 
 
 
     2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
(b) Deferred tax balances and movement for FY 2021-22 
 (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
At as           Recognised in profit or loss 
Recognised 
Other 
      As at
 
 
1st April  
Restatement  
Others 
in OCI 
Adjustments/ 31st March
 
 
2021 
 
 
 Capital Reserve      2022
Deferred tax Liabilities - Tax
effect of items constituting - 
 
Property, plant and equipment  
 834.34  
 
 24.47  
 -    
 -    
 858.81 
 
& Intangible assets 
 
Investments 
 3.90  
 
 -    
 0.50  
 -    
 4.39
 
                                      Total 
   838.24  
 -    
 24.47  
 0.50  
 -    
 863.20 
Deferred tax asset - Tax effect
of items constituting -  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employee benefits 
 13.28  
 
 1.81  
 (0.19) 
 -    
 14.90 
 
Provisions 
 12.67  
 
 5.47  
 -    
 -    
 18.14  
 
Other items 
 19.77  
 
 2.67  
 -    
 -    
 22.44
 
                                      Total 
 45.72  
 -    
 9.95  
 (0.19) 
 -    
 55.48 
Restatement of Previous year 
 -    
 (2.77) 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 ( Refer Note 56)* 
Net deferred tax Liabilities 
 792.52  
 (2.77) 
 14.52  
 0.69  
 -    
 807.72
* Refer Note 56 for deferred tax asset created on account of business combination transactions
Notes:   
 
 
 
 
The company offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and current tax 
liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.  
Significant management judgment is required in determining provision for income tax, deferred income tax assets and liabilities and 
recoverability of deferred income tax assets. The recoverability of deferred income tax assets is based on estimates of taxable income 
by each jurisdiction in which the relevant entity operates and the period over which deferred income tax assets will be recovered.
Particulars 
As at 
Expiry date 
As at 
Expiry date
 
  
31st March 2023  
   
31st March 2022 
 
Expire  
Nil  
 NA  
 Nil  
 NA 
Never Expire 
 Nil  
 NA  
 Nil  
 NA 
(c) Tax losses carried forward
Note 24  OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Deferred Revenue ( Refer Note 49) 
71.08 
 68.83
Total 
71.08  
68.83  
Note 25   CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES :  BORROWINGS 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Current maturities of long term borrowings -  (Refer Note 20):- 
 
 Term Loan  
 
 
 -From Banks (Secured)  
 -    
 86.95 
 Total (A)  
 -    
 86.95 
Loans Repayable on demand (Unsecured) 
 
 
 -From Banks (Bank Overdraft)  
 -    
 3.15  
 Total (B)  
 -    
 3.15
 Total (A + B) 
 -    
 90.10
The Company does not have any defaults in repayment of loans and interest as at the reporting date. 
 
The Company has obtained unsecured working capital Overdraft facilities wherein submission of the quarterly returns/ 
statements of current assets is not applicable. 
 
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements
155
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 23  DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (Net) (Continued...)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
156
Note 26 CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES : TRADE PAYABLES 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March  2022
A. Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises -
 
Trade payables others (Refer Note 44) 
 18.50  
21.36
B.  (i) Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
 
  small enterprises:-
 
  Trade payables - Gas Purchase /  Transmission 
  515.16  
292.63
 
  Trade payables - Others 
60.63  
31.27
 
   
 575.79  
323.90
 
(ii) Unbilled dues 
 121.29 
100.37
 
Sub total (i + ii) 
697.08  
 424.27
Total (A + B) 
 715.58  
445.63 
 Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements  
 
 Refer Note 48 for Related party balances 
 
Note 26.1: Trade Payable ageing schedule:
As on 31 March 2023: 
 
(  in Crores)
`
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements 
 
Refer Note 48 for Related party balances
As on 31 March 2022: 
 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars
Outstanding for following period from due date of payment
Total
More than 
3 years
2-3 years
1-2 years
Less than 
1 Year
Not Due
Unbilled
(i) MSME 
 -    
 18.13  
 0.37  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 18.50
(ii) Others 
 -    
 558.01  
 13.74  
 0.32  
 0.08  
 0.27  
 572.42
(iii) Disputed dues - MSME 
  -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -     
(iv) Disputed dues -Others 
  -    
 2.15  
 0.03  
 0.48  
 0.06  
 0.65  
 3.37
(v) Unbilled 
  121.29  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 121.29
Total 
   121.29  
 578.29  
 14.14  
 0.80  
 0.14  
 0.92  
 715.58
Particulars
Outstanding for following period from due date of payment
Total
More than 
3 years
2-3 years
1-2 years
Less than 
1 Year
Not Due
Unbilled
(i) MSME 
 -    
 21.07  
 0.29  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 21.36 
(ii) Others 
 -    
 316.35  
 4.53  
 0.09  
 0.11  
 0.54  
 321.63
(iii) Disputed dues - MSME 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -  
(iv) Disputed dues -Others 
 -    
 1.48  
 -    
 -    
 0.12  
 0.66  
 2.26
(v) Unbilled 
  100.37  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 100.37 
Total 
    100.37  
 338.91  
 4.83  
 0.09  
 0.23  
 1.20  
 445.63 
Note 27 CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES : OTHERS 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st  
As at 31st 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Capital creditors and other payables (Including retentions):-  
 
-   Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (Refer note 44) 
  74.86  
 90.03 
-   Total outstanding other than dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises 
 206.15  
 197.45 
 
 281.01  
 287.48
 Security Deposits from customers  
 1,394.49  
 1,326.45 
 Interest accrued on security deposits from customers  
 14.12  
 11.86 
 Security Deposit from customers towards MGO  
 151.24  
 151.85 
 Security Deposit from collection centres and others  
 5.15  
 4.82 
 Security Deposits from Suppliers  
 44.21  
 52.55 
 Unclaimed dividend (Refer Note 27.1)  
 1.35  
 1.52 
 Other current financial liabilities  
 6.29  
 5.43 
 Total  
 1,897.86  
 1,841.96 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
157
Note 27.1: The balance with the bank for unpaid dividend is not available for use by the Company and the money remaining unpaid 
will be deposited in Investor Protection and Education Fund u/s 124(5) of Companies Act, 2013 after the expiry of seven years from 
the date of declaration of dividend. No amount is due at the end of the period for credit to Investors education and protection fund. 
Note 28: CURRENT LIABILITIES : OTHERS 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st  
As at 31st 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 Provision for employee benefits (Refer note 47) 
 
 
 Provision for gratuity  
 3.13  
 0.16 
 
 Provision for leave encashment  
 1.81  
 2.65 
 
 Provision for bonus & incentives  
 22.37  
 22.59 
 
 Provision for other employee benefits  
 0.07  
 3.12 
 Total  
 27.38  
 28.52 
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March  2022
 Advances from customer  
 77.35  
 30.33 
 Deferred Revenue (Refer Note 49)  
 11.70  
 10.59 
 Statutory dues payable (Includes Excise duty,VAT,GST,TDS,PF etc.)  
 28.61  
 35.11 
 Provision for CSR (Refer note 54)  
 16.35  
 4.40 
 Other Current Liabilities  
 0.15  
 0.26 
 Total    
 134.16  
 80.69 
Note 29: CURRENT PROVISIONS 
(  in Crores)
`
Note 30 CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES (NET) 
(  in Crores)
`
INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (NET)
Details of Income tax assets and income tax liabilities 
(  in Crores)
`
Movement in income tax asset/(liability) 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st  
As at 31st 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 Current income tax liabilities (Net of advance tax, TDS and TCS) 
- 
-
 Total  
- 
-
Particulars 
As at 31st  
As at 31st 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 (a) Income tax assets (Refer Note 10)  
 42.70  
 45.26 
 (b) Current income tax liabilities  
 -    
 -  
 Net Asset (a-b) (Refer Note 10)  
 42.70  
 45.26
Particulars 
As at 31st  
As at 31st 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Net current income tax asset/(liability) at the beginning of the period 
  45.26  
 27.07
Movement during the year on account of : 
 
Income tax paid for the year 
 484.74  
 437.54   
 
 
Provision for Income tax for the year (Refer Note 40(a)) 
 (476.41) 
 (414.90)
 
Prior year tax paid /refund adjusted with tax / other items 
 12.43  
 (3.12)
 
Income tax refund received  
 (23.32) 
 (1.33)
Net current income tax asset/(liability) at the end of the period 
 42.70  
 45.26
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
158
Note 31  REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Sale of Product (Including excise duty)  
 
 Natural Gas  
 17,211.97  
 16,710.32
Other operating revenue 
 
Gas transmission / Compression Income  (Including excise duty) 
7.34  
 5.26
Yearly fees Income* 
33.43  
 23.21
Take or Pay Income 
 23.60  
 21.90
Connection, Service and Fitting Income 
 25.56  
 24.64
Other Operating Income 
4.26  
 2.02
  
 94.19  
 77.03
Total 
 17,306.16  
 16,787.35 
Note 32  OTHER INCOME 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Interest Income
 
From Deposits with Banks/Financial Institutions*  
 25.00 
14.54
  
From Customers on delayed payments  
 16.46  
 17.56
 
From Other financial assets at amortised cost (EIR)  
1.21  
 0.99
  
Others (including interest on tax refunds Current  8.69 Crores, 
 9.21  
 0.58
`
 
Previous year  Nil )** 
`
 
 Total  
51.88  
 33.67
 Dividend on Investments  
0.00  
 0.00
 Late payment charges  
 12.78  
 10.79
 Provisions / liabilities no longer required written back   
 16.91  
 20.78
 Profit on Lease termination / modification / reassessment (net)  
0.44  
 -
 Profit on sale as scrap and diminution in Capital Inventory (net)  
0.74  
 1.03
 Other Non-Operating Income  
  18.52  
 24.47
Total 
 101.27  
 90.74
*Includes interest Income on Security deposits in form of fixed/ liquid deposits with banks/ financial institutions  
**Includes interest income on deposits, staff advances and employee loans 
 
 
Figures INR 0.00 denotes amount less than INR 50,000/-.
*Refer note 2(f) of Significant Accounting policy
Note 33  COST OF MATERIALS CONSUMED / PURCHASE OF STOCK IN TRADE 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Natural Gas - Purchase  
12,753.85  
 12,853.62
Gas Transportation Charges  
525.23  
 582.51
Change in Deferred delivery of natural gas (GIT):-  
 
Add :- Opening balance  
 -    
 7.98
Less:- Closing balance  
(2.89) 
 - 
Net Change in Deferred delivery of natural gas (GIT)  
(2.89) 
 7.98
Total 
13,276.19  
 13,444.11
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
159
Note 34  CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF NATURAL GAS 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock in trade and 
work in progress  - Natural Gas
Inventory at the beginning of the year  
14.16  
 6.92
Less: Inventory at the end of the year  
16.92  
 14.16
Total 
(2.76) 
 (7.24)
Note 35 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
 Salaries and Wages  
160.96  
 153.19 
 Contribution to Provident and Other Funds- Gratuity(Refer note 47)  
  21.60  
 19.99
 Leave Encashment & Other benefits  
  4.58  
 10.34
 Staff Welfare Expenses  
  13.81  
 12.99
 
 200.95  
 196.51
 Less: Amount capitalised during the period*  
 (5.37) 
 (5.63)
Total 
 195.58  
 190.88
*Salary & wages of employees directly involved in capital projects are capitalised in Property, plant and equipment (PPE).
Note 36  FINANCE COSTS 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March2022
 Interest on Borrowings  
  12.99  
 35.27
 Interest on Security Deposits & Others  
  15.97  
 13.45
 Interest expenses on lease liability (Refer note 50)  
  9.83  
 7.25
 Interest on Income Tax  
  1.56  
 0.85
Total 
  40.35  
 56.82
Note 37  DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EXPENSE 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March2022
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Refer note 3.1)  
 374.46  
 338.02
Amortisation of intangible assets (Refer note 5.1) 
 24.46  
 21.97 
Amortisation of ROU assets (Refer note 5.3) 
 29.34  
 24.92
Total 
 428.26  
 384.91
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
160
Note 38  OTHER EXPENSES 
(` in Crores)
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
 Consumption of Stores & Spares Parts 
 17.64  
 17.58
 Power and Fuel  
 163.32  
 119.28
Repairs and Maintenance: 
 
- Buildings  
1.83  
 2.47
 
- Plant and Machinery  
 276.79  
 237.13
 
- Others  
 15.80  
 13.45
 Lease Charges-Others (Refer Note 38.1)  
  40.85  
 33.80
 LCV/HCV Hiring, Operating and Maintenance Charges (Refer Note 38.1)  
 69.44  
 50.40
 Franchisee and other Commission  
 56.86  
 45.69 
 Agency & Contract Staff Expenses  
 32.97  
 31.40
 Legal and Professional Charges  
 23.74  
 32.01
 ROW Running Charges  
 71.25  
 54.67
 Loss on sale / write-off of Fixed Assets (net)  
 3.26  
 1.49
 Bank Charges  
 26.41  
 24.86
 Billing and Collection Expenses  
 13.57  
 11.39
 Vehicles Expenses   
 6.66  
 6.61
 Office Expenses  
 8.77  
 9.32
 Postage and Telephone Expenses  
 4.99  
 4.51
 Allowance for Doubtful Trade Receivables/Advances/Deposits(net)  
 6.12  
 3.71
 Business Promotion Expenses  
 6.17  
 3.63
 Insurance  
 6.27  
 10.36
 Rates, taxes and duties  
 1.88  
 1.41
 Travelling and Conveyance   
 1.74  
 0.98
 Stationery and Printing Expenses  
  2.25  
 1.57
 Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses (Refer Note no. 54)  
 31.03  
 23.54
 Payment to Auditors (Refer Note 38.2)  
0.34  
 0.32
 Diminution in Capital Inventory/Loss on sale as scrap  
0.88  
 2.74 
 Miscellaneous Expenses  
 7.56  
 7.84
 Net loss on foreign currency transaction(Refer Note 38.3)  
 0.01  
 0.01
Total 
 898.40  
 752.17
Note 38.1 Leases charges-Others includes rental charges of all assets that have lease period of 12 month or less, rental charges of 
low value assets, variable lease payments and component of taxes of ROU lease charges.
LCV/HCV Hiring, Operating and Maintenance Charges includes non lease component viz. manpower, fuel cost, repair and 
maintenance and rental charges of LCV/HCV lease assets that have lease period of 12 month or less. 
(Refer note 50).
Note 38.2 Payment to Auditors 
(  in Crores)
`
Figures INR 0.00 denotes amount less than INR 50,000/-.
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
For Statutory Audit 
 0.34  
 0.32
For Out of pocket expenses 
 -    
 - 
For Other services 
 0.00  
 0.00
Total 
0.34  
 0.32
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
161
Figures INR 0.00 denotes amount less than INR 50,000/-.
Note 38.3 Net (gain) or loss on foreign currency transaction 
 (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Loss on foreign currency transaction 
 0.01  
 0.01
Gain on foreign currency transaction 
 0.00  
 0.00
Net (gain) or loss on foreign currency transaction 
 0.01  
 0.01
Note 39 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 
 (  in Crores)
`
Note 39.1 Exceptional item in previous year pertains to payment of stamp duty with regards to the Business Transfer Agreement 
(BTA) & conveyance deed executed for transfer / purchase of City Gas Distribution (CGD) Business of Amritsar and Bhatinda 
Geographical Areas  from Gujarat State Petronet Limited (a holding company) to the Company for cash consideration. 
(Refer Note 56)
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Exceptional item  
-    
 11.90
Total 
 -    
 11.90
Note 40 TAX EXPENSE
(a) Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss 
 (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Income Tax Expenses 
Current Tax 
 
 
(a) Current income tax 
  476.41  
 414.90
 
(b) Short/(Excess) provision of income tax in respect of previous years  
 (13.03) 
 1.13
 
Total (A) 
 463.38  
 416.03
Deferred tax 
 
 
Deferred tax expense / (Income)- net 
 
 
(a) In respect of current year, Origination and reversal of  
39.71  
 12.88
 
 temporary differences 
 
(b) Short/(Excess) provision of income tax in respect of previous years 
(3.91) 
 (1.14)
 
Total (B) 
 35.80  
 11.74
Tax expense for the year ( A+B) 
  499.18  
 427.77
(b) Reconciliation of effective tax rate and tax expense with accounting profit 
 (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Profit before tax 
 2,024.65  
 1,713.41
Tax using the Company’s domestic tax rate (Current year 25.17% and  
509.56  
 431.23 
Previous Year 25.17%) 
Tax effect on account of: 
 
Expenses not deductible or disallowances for tax purposes - CSR,  
 8.20  
 6.14
 
Interest u/s. 234B / 234C etc. 
 
Other items 
 0.35  
 1.65
 
Impact of Long Term Capital Gain on Land 
(1.99) 
 (8.53)
 
Tax impact on Losses of GSPL (Amritsar & Bhatinda GA) on account of  
 -    
 (2.71)
 
restatement (Refer note 56) 
 
Impact of (Excess)/Short provisions of earlier year taxes 
(16.94) 
 (0.01)
Total  
 499.18  
 427.77
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
162
Note 41  STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 
 
 I.   Equity Instruments through Other Comprehensive Income 
 
 
Fair value of unquoted investments - gain 
 8.02  
 2.62
 
 
Tax impact on unquoted investments 
(1.80) 
 (0.50)
 
II. Remeasurement gains/ (losses) on defined employee benefit plans
 
 
Actuarial gains 
 3.07  
 0.76
 
 
Tax impact on actuarial gains 
 (0.77) 
 (0.19)
Total of Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 
11.09  
 3.38
Total Tax impact 
 (2.57) 
 (0.69)
Total 
 8.52  
 2.69
Note 42 EARNING PER SHARE  (EPS) 
 
 
EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE- FACE VALUE OF ` 2 EACH 
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:
Particulars 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Profit for the year (Profit attributable to equity shareholders)  (  in Crores) 
 1,525.47  
 1,285.64
`
Weighted average number of ordinary equity shares for Basic EPS (in Nos.) 
  68,83,90,125  
 68,83,90,125 
Weighted average number of ordinary equity shares for Diluted EPS (in Nos.) 
  68,83,90,125  
 68,83,90,125
Face Value of equity share ( ) 
 2.00  
 2.00
`
Basic EPS ( ) 
 22.16  
 18.68
`
Diluted EPS ( ) 
 22.16  
 18.68
`
Note:- Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit 
attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year plus the 
weighted average number of Equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential Equity shares into Equity 
shares. 
The Company does not have any outstanding dilutive potential equity shares. Consequently, the basic and diluted earnings per share 
of the Company remain the same.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
Note 43 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES & CONTINGENT ASSETS
(A) CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
(  in Crores)
`
Contingent liabilities  
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
(to the extent not provided for) 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Contingent Liabilities 
 
(a)  Contingent Liabilities - Statutory claims ( Refer Note 43.1)
 Disputed statutory dues in respect of which Appeals are filed 
 against / by  the Company :
 (i)   Excise Duty 
 
17.97  
 18.90 
 (ii)  Income Tax 
 
8.15  
 4.29
 (iii) Service Tax/ GST 
 
47.29  
 41.13
 
 
Total 
73.41  
 64.32 
(b)  Claims / Litigations against the company not acknowledged as debt 
 
482.18  
 459.01 
 
(Refer Note 43.2)
Total 
 
 555.59  
 523.34
The Company has reviewed all its pending claims, litigations and proceedings and has adequately provided for where provisions are 
required and disclosed as contingent liabilities where applicable, in its financial statements. The company does not expect the 
outcome of these  claims, litigations and proceedings to have a materially adverse effect on its financial position. 
163
Note 43.1 - Disputed statutory dues in respect of which Appeals are filed against / by  company
The Company is contesting the demands and the management including its advisors believe that its position is likely to be upheld in 
the appellate process. No tax expense has been accrued in the financial statements for the tax demand raised. The management 
believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position 
and results of operations.
Note 43.2 - Claims / Litigations against the company not acknowledged as debt includes the following major matters:
(i)  
UPL Limited (UPL) a customer of erstwhile Gujarat Gas Company Limited (GGCL) (now known as Gujarat Gas Limited) had filed 
a complaint before Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) against erstwhile GGCL alleging charging of tariff 
illegally under the City Gas Network Distribution Agreement entered into between the parties and filed claim of approx. ` 76.98 
Crores. The matter was decided against the company by PNGRB vide its Order dated 20.10.2014. The company  had preferred 
an appeal at Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) against the aforementioned PNGRB Order. APTEL has delivered final 
judgement on 10.03.2021 in favour of the Company by setting aside the aforementioned PNGRB Order, and has recorded that 
invocation of HAPI tariff by PNGRB for the negotiated arrangement between the parties was not only against the letter and 
spirit of regulations defining tariff zone but also tantamount to rewriting of contract. 
 
 
UPL has preferred an appeal before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India against the order of APTEL dated 10.03.2021. 
Presently, the matter is pending before Hon’ble Supreme Court of India.
(ii) 
One of the gas suppliers of the Company has submitted claims of ` 212.14 Crores (P. Y. ` 189.59  Crores), for use of allocated 
gas for other than specified purpose, related to FY 2013-14 to FY 2021-22 and no claim received from supplier for 
FY 2022-23. The company has refuted this erroneous claim and also there is no contractual provisions of the agreement 
executed with GGL that allow such claim. The management is of the firm view that the company is not liable to pay any such 
claim. The company has already taken up the matter with concerned party to withdraw the claim. 
 
(iii) 
The company has initiated an arbitration proceeding against one of the franchisees claiming compensation for loss of revenue. 
While replying to the claim, the said franchisee has also filed a counter claim of ` 177.14  Crores  (P.Y. ` 177.14 Crores) against 
the company claiming compensation for various losses. The company has filed necessary rejoinder to the counter claim 
strongly refuting the same mainly on the grounds that the counter claims are wrong and without merits and as are not flowing 
from the same agreement under which the arbitral tribunal has been constituted. Currently arbitral proceedings of this matter is 
pending before the sole arbitrator.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
164
Note 43.3 - The following demands / Litigations / matters are not included in above
(i)  
Erstwhile Gujarat Gas Company Limited and Erstwhile GSPC Gas Company Limited (Now collectively known as Gujarat Gas 
Limited “GGL”) had signed Gas supply agreement with Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited (GSPCL) for purchase of 
Re-gasified liquified natural gas (RLNG). As per the provision of said agreement, GGL has to pay interconnectivity charges to 
GSPCL for the supply and purchase of RLNG at Delivery point which is charged to GSPCL by their supplier i.e. PLL Off takers 
(GAIL India, BPCL, IOCL).
 
PGNRB had vide its order dated 13.09.2011 and the majority members of PNGRB (three member panel of Board) had vide its 
order dated 10.10.2011 held that GAIL had adopted Restrictive Trade Practices by blocking off direct connectivity to GSPCL and 
further, directed Respondents (PLL Off takers -GAIL India, BPCL, IOCL) to immediately give direct connectivity to GSPCL at 
Dahej Terminal. 
 
The PLL Offtakers (GAIL) filed appeals against the said PNGRB orders before the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL). On 
23.02.2012 APTEL had issued an interim order for shifting the Delivery Point from GAIL-GSPL Delivery Point to GSPL-PLL 
Delivery Point. On 18.12.2013 APTEL issued its judgment and required GSPCL to pay the amount of the difference between 
` 8.74/MMBTU (exclusive of Service Tax) – earlier connectivity charges and ` 19.83/MMBTU (Exclusive of Service Tax) – 
HVJ/DVPL Zone-1 tariff to GAIL for the period from 20th November 2008 to 29th February 2012.
 
GSPCL had filed an appeal against the APTEL’s above referred judgment before Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (GSPCL vs. GAIL 
& Others, Civil Appeal No. 2473-2476 of 2014) and the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India had passed the Interim Order on 28th 
February 2014. The Court has stated that the ends of justice would be met if as a matter of interim arrangement, the appellant is 
directed to pay interconnectivity charges at the rate of ` 12.00 per MMBTU (exclusive of Taxes). The Company has already 
provided and paid interconnectivity charges at the rate of ` 12.00 per MMBTU (exclusive of Taxes). 
 
GGL has not received any bill / demand note for the amount over and above ` 12.00 per MMBTU from supplier till date. As the 
final liability would only be determined post the final order of the court, quantification of any amount as contingent liability in the 
interim is inappropriate due to the uncertainty involved and hence the same is not mentioned / disclosed in the financial 
statement.
(ii)  
The Company deposited ` 464.78 crores on 12th June, 2013 into the escrow account “named BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte. 
Limited GSPC Distribution Networks Limited Escrow Account” opened with Citibank N.A., acting as the escrow agent, pursuant 
to the escrow agreement executed between the BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte. Limited (the Seller), Gujarat Gas Limited 
(Formerly known as GSPC Distribution Networks Limited) (the Purchaser) and Citibank N.A. The Payment of said amount into 
Escrow Account was to be utilized to meet future tax withholding liability (if any) based on outcome of the applications to the 
Authority for Advance Rulings or otherwise to be remitted to BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte. Limited (the Seller) directly. 
 
The Company has received the ruling from the Hon’ble Authority for Advance Ruling (“AAR”), vide consolidated ruling order 
dated 25th February 2021 wherein the Hon’ble AAR has held that the transaction Price is not subject to any tax withholding in 
India and the Purchaser is not required to withhold tax since the capital gains is not subject to tax in India in view of Article 13(4) 
of the India Singapore Tax Treaty under India Singapore Double Tax Avoidance Agreement in the hands of the Seller. Pursuant to 
the ruling of the Hon’ble AAR and as per the terms of the Escrow Agreement, amount of ` 464.78 crores  kept in Escrow 
Account had been remitted to the BG Singapore on 7th April 2021.
 
During the year, Commissioner of Income Tax (International Taxation) – 3 (CIT), has filed Civil Misc. Writ Petition against BG 
Singapore, challenging the AAR Ruling before the Hon’ble High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital on 22.09.2021. CIT has also filed 
Impleadment /Amendment Application in Civil Misc. Writ Petition before the Hon’ble High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital on 
08.01.2022 for amendment of cause title of the petition and added Commissioner of Income Tax (IT & TP), Ahmedabad as 
Petitioner No. 2 and GGL as Respondent No. 2. Currently, the Impleadment /Amendment Application is in process for admission 
with Hon’ble High Court of Uttarakhand.
 
As per Share purchase agreement, the Seller had agreed to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Purchaser from and against 
any Tax claim notice receives on or prior to the expiry of 10 years from the Closing date (i.e. up to 11th June, 2023) in respect of 
Seller’s sale of shares to the Purchaser.
 
In view of this, there is remote possibility of any outflow in this matter and hence, the same has not been considered as 
Contingent Liability.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
165
(iii)  The revision of Trade margin  with the Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs  namely IOCL, HPCL and BPCL) is pending from earlier 
 
years and is subject to mutual agreement between OMCs and the Company. In November 2021, the Ministry of Petroleum & 
 
Natural Gas (MoP&NG) issued an advisory pertaining to revised Trade margin and subsequently citing MoP&NG advisory, OMCs 
 
have started to claim revised Trade margin discounts & deductions in CNG sales bill payment made to the company. The 
 
Company has contested the decision of the OMCs in considering the revised trade margins without any mutual agreement with 
 
the Company.
 
Pending settlement, the liability is provided to the extent considered appropriate by the Company. No provision has been made 
 
for period earlier to the advisory.
(iv) Two entities, who have been authorized by the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB), have filed complaints 
 
against the Company before the PNGRB for claiming compensation with respect to the unauthorized development / operations 
 
of CGD infrastructure activities carried out by the Company in their authorised area. The Company has also filed a complaint 
 
against one of the entities before the PNGRB for unauthorized development / operations of CGD infrastructure in area 
 
authorised to the Company. Further, the Company has raised objections to the maintainability of the such complaints, which are 
 
yet to be determined by the PNGRB. The quantification of any liability is not ascertainable at this stage. However, the Company is 
 
hopeful of arriving at amicable resolution of the subject issues. 
(B) 
CONTINGENT ASSETS 
 
 
 
(i)  
The Company has raised claim of ` 43.08 crores (Previous year ` 43.08 crores)  for net credit of natural gas pipeline tariff as 
per PNGRB Order with one of the suppliers and supplier is disputing company’s claim and indicating for adjusting the partial 
claim of ` 30.72 crores (Previous year ` 30.72 crores) out of total claim ` 43.08 crores (Previous year ` 43.08 crores) against 
disputed liability for use of allocated gas other than specified purpose, against demand in earlier year (Refer Point 43.2(ii) 
above).  
 
(ii)  
The Company has filed an appeal before the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) against the PNGRB order related to the 
matter held that the Gas Swapping Arrangement Guidelines of PNGRB is applied erroneously. APTEL has issued the order in 
favour of GGL. The said supplier has filed appeal at Hon’ble Supreme Court of India against the order of APTEL. 
 
Presently, the matter is pending in Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. Currently, GGL is paying ` 19.83 per mmbtu as transmission 
charges for domestic gas being purchased and delivered by GAIL at one of the delivery points . If verdict is in favour of GGL, GGL 
will get refund of ` 229.12 Crores (Previous year ` 193.65 Crores) from December 2013 till March 2023 and the company 
shall be required to pass on the benefit to its customers as per relevant order of the Court.
(iii)  The Company is having other certain claims, litigations and proceedings which are pursuing through legal processes. The 
management believe that probable outcome in all such claims, litigations and proceedings are uncertain. Hence, the disclosure 
of such claims, litigations and proceedings is not required in the financial statements.
(C) COMMITMENTS 
`
 
 
 (  in Crores)
Sr  Commitments  (to the extent not provided for) 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
No.  
 
March 2023 
March 2022
1 
Estimated amount of contracts  remaining to be executed on capital account  
 798.87  
 976.83
 
and not provided for 
 
2 
Estimated amount of contracts  remaining to be executed on revenue account  
 1,309.35  
 1,163.69
 
and not provided for 
 
 
Total 
 
2,108.22  
 2,140.52
         Other commitments 
 
 
 
(i)  
All term contracts for purchase of natural gas with suppliers, has contractual  volume off take obligation of “Take or Pay”  (ToP) 
as specified in individual contracts.  Quantification of ToP amount is dependent on various factors like actual purchase quantity, 
gas purchase prices of respective contract etc. As these factors are not predictable, ToP commitment amount is not 
quantifiable.
(ii)  
The Company has been granted authorization for laying, building, operating and expanding CGD network in the total 27  
geographical area under the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Authorizing entities to lay, build, operate or expand 
city or local Natural Gas Distribution Networks) Regulation 2008, against which Company is required to complete Minimum 
Work Programme (MWP) target for development of CGD network  under the terms of authorisation awarded by Petroleum and 
Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB). For this purpose, the Company had submitted performance bank guarantees (issued by 
banks on behalf of the Company) amounting to ` 6528.83 crores (previous year ` 6528.83 crores) to the Petroleum and 
Natural Gas Regulatory Board.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
Note 44 DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY THE MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT ACT, 2006 
 
 
 (  in Crores)
`
 Sr. 
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 No.  
 
March 2023 March 2022
 1 
The principal amount outstanding as at the end of accounting year.
  
a) Trade payable
  
b) Capital creditors
 2 
Principal amount due and remaining unpaid as at the end of accounting year. 
 3 
Interest paid by the company in terms of section 16 of the Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (27 of 2006), along with the amount of the payment 
made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during accounting year.
 4 
Interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which have been paid but 
beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the interest specified under 
the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.
 5 
Interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of accounting year (Refer Note below).
 6 
Further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such date 
when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise, for the purpose of 
disallowance as a deductible expenditure under section 23 of the Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises Development Act, 2006.
 
 
 
  18.50  
 21.36
 
 74.86  
 90.03
 
 -    
 -   
 
 -    
 -   
  
-    
 -   
 
 -    
 -   
 
 -    
 -
166
Note: No interest has been paid by the Company to the enterprises covered under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
Development Act, 2006 according to the terms agreed with the enterprises.  
 
 
The above information regarding micro, small and medium enterprises have been determined to the extent such parties have 
been identified on the basis of information available with the Company.
Note 45 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS) AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company has various financial assets and liabilities. The disclosures regarding the classification, fair value hierarchy, markets risk, 
credit risks and liquidity risks are as follows:
A. 
ACCOUNTING CLASSIFICATION AND FAIR VALUES 
 
March 31, 2023 
FVTPL FVTOCI Amortised 
Total Level 1 - 
Level -2 
Level 3 -  
Total
 
 
 
Cost 
 
Quoted   Significant 
Significant 
 
 
 
 
 
price in observable unobservable 
 
 
 
 
 
 active 
 inputs 
 inputs
 
 
 
 
  markets
Financial assets  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Investments  
 -     30.38  
 -    
 30.38  
 -    
 -    
 30.38   30.38
Financial assets measured 
at amortised cost
 Loans (Non-current) 
 -    
 -    
 2.74 
 2.74  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Loans (Current) 
 -    
 -    
 3.84  
 3.84  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Other financial assets(Non-current) 
 -    
 -    
 97.92  
 97.92  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Other financial assets (Current) 
 -    
 -    
 9.86  
 9.86  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Trade receivables 
 -    
 -     1,021.15   1,021.15  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Cash and cash equivalents 
 -    
 -    
 674.70  
 674.70  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Other bank balances 
 -    
 -    
 6.28  
 6.28  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Total  
 -     30.38    1,816.49  1,846.87 
 -    
 -    
30.38   30.38 
Financial liabilities measured at 
amortised cost
 Non current borrowings 
 -    
 -    
-  
-  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Current borrowings  
 -    
 -    
 - 
 -  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Non current-Lease Liabilities 
 -    
 -    
 123.93 
123.93  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Current -Lease Liabilities 
 
 
28.39  
28.39 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Non current financial liabilities- 
 Others 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Trade payables 
 -    
 -    
715.58  
 715.58  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Other financial liabilities 
 -    
 -     1,897.86  1,897.86 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Total  
 -    
 -    2,765.76   2,765.76  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -
Carrying amount 
Fair value#  
(  in Crores)
`
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
Fair Value Hierarchy of Financial Assets and Liabilities  :
Investment in equity accounted investee i.e.. Guj Info Petro Limited (GIPL) carried at cost.
# Fair value of financial assets and liabilities which are measured at amortised cost is not materially different from the carrying value 
(ie..amortised cost). Accordingly, the fair value has not been disclosed separately.
Level 1:  Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. 
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, traded bonds, over-the counter 
derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as 
possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the 
instrument is included in level 2.
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This is the 
case for unlisted equity securities included in level 3.
B. 
MEASUREMENT OF FAIR VALUES
i)  
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
 
The following tables show the valuation techniques used in measuring Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, as well as the significant 
unobservable inputs used.
167
March 31, 2022 
FVTPL FVTOCI Amortised 
Total Level 1 - 
Level -2 
Level 3 -  
Total
 
 
 
Cost 
 
Quoted   Significant 
Significant 
 
 
 
 
 
price in observable unobservable 
 
 
 
 
 
 active 
 inputs 
 inputs
 
 
 
 
  markets
Financial assets
 
Investments  
 -     22.36 
 -    
 22.36  
 -    
 -    
 22.36  22.36
Financial assets measured at 
amortised cost 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans (Non-current) 
 -    
 -    
 3.56  
 3.56  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Loans (Current) 
 -    
 -    
 2.91  
 2.91  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Other financial assets  
 -    
 -    
 81.27  
 81.27  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
(Non-current) 
 
Other financial assets (Current) 
 -    
 -    
16.80  
 16.80  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Trade receivables 
 -    
 -     930.05  
 930.05  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 -    
 -    
19.59  
 19.59  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Other bank balances 
 -    
 -    
 1.54  
 1.54  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Total  
 -     22.36   1,055.72  1,078.08  
 -    
 -    
 22.36  22.36 
Financial liabilities measured at 
amortised cost
 
Non current borrowings 
 -    
 -    
 390.97  
 390.97  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Current borrowings  
 -    
 -    
 90.10  
 90.10  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Non current-Lease Liabilities 
 -    
 -    
 125.33  
 125.33  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Current -Lease Liabilities 
 
 
 22.45  
 22.45  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Non current financial liabilities-  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 - 
 
Others 
 
Trade payables 
 -    
 -    
445.63  
 445.63  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Other financial liabilities 
 -    
 -     1,841.96   1,841.96  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Total  
 -    
 -     2,916.44   2,916.44  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -
Carrying amount 
Fair value# 
(  in Crores)
`
Note 45 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS) AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued...)
 
  
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
Valuation technique   
Significant 
unobservable inputs
Inter-relationship between 
significant unobservable 
inputs and fair value 
measurement
Market comparison technique: The valuation model is based on 
three approaches :
1. Market approach : This approach uses information generated 
by market transactions of the Company being valued or the 
transactions of comparable companies. The following market-
linked information may be used for determining valuation under 
this approach.
- Quoted price of the company being valued,
- Past transaction value of the company being valued,
- Listed comparable companies' trading multiples like price to 
earning ratio, enterprise value to earning before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation, enterprise value to sales etc.
- Transactions multiples for investment / M & A transaction of 
comparable companies.
The valuation arrived at based on the market approach reflects 
the current value of the Company perceived in the active market. 
However, as the valuation arrived at using market multiples is 
based on the past/current transaction or traded values of 
comparable companies/businesses, it may not reflect the 
possible changes in future trend of cash flows being generated by 
a business.
2. Income approach - The income approach reflects present 
value of future cash flows. For valuing a business, the discounted 
cash flow (DCF) methodology is used under this approach. This 
methodology works on the premise that the value of a business is 
measured in terms of future cash flow streams, discounted to the 
present time at an appropriate discount rate. This method is used 
to determine the present value of business on a going concern 
assumption. The DCF technique recognizes the time value of 
money.
The value of the firm is arrived at by estimating the Free Cash 
Flow to Firm (FCFF) and discounting the same at the Weighted 
Average Cost of Capital (WACC). FCFF is estimated by forecasting 
free cash flows available to the firm (which are derived on the 
basis of the likely future earnings of the company).
3. Cost approach - The cost approach essentially estimates the 
cost of replacing the tangible assets of the business. The 
replacement cost takes into account the market value of various 
assets or the expenditure required to create the infrastructure 
exactly similar to that of a company being valued.
Comparable unobservable 
entity has been taken as a 
base for the valuation of 
unquoted equity shares and 
its management's own 
assumptions for arriving at a 
fair value such as projected 
cash flows used to value a 
business etc. 
As stated , highest priority is 
given to unadjusted quoted 
price of listed entities and 
lowest priority to non-
market linked inputs such as 
future cash flows used in 
income
approach.
The estimated fair value would 
increase (decrease) if:
There is a change in pricing 
multiple owing to change in 
earnings of the entity.  
Considering the diverse asset 
and investment base of the 
Company with differing risk / 
return profiles, a sum of the 
parts approach has been 
adopted for the valuation. Under 
this method, the value of each 
distinct business/asset/ 
investment has been arrived at 
separately and total value 
estimate for the Company 
presented as the sum of all its 
business / investments /assets.
ii) 
Transfers between Levels 1 and 2
 
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the reporting periods.
Note 45 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS) AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued.....) 
Financial instruments measured at fair value - FVTOCI in unquoted equity shares
 
168
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
iii) 
Level 3 fair values
 
Movements in the values of unquoted equity instruments for the period ended 31st March 2023 and 31st March 2022 is as 
below:  
 
`
 
 (  in Crores)
Particulars 
 
 
 
 Amount
As at 1 April 2021 
19.74
Acquisitions/ (disposals 
 -   
Gains/ (losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 
2.62
Gains/ (losses) recognised in statement of profit or loss 
 -   
Closing Balance as at 31 March 2022 
22.36
Acquisitions/ (disposals) 
 -   
Gains/ (losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 
8.02
Gains/ (losses) recognised in statement of profit or loss 
 -   
Closing Balance as at 31 March 2023 
30.38
Equity Instrument:- Fair value of investment in GSPC shares is based on Market approach, Income approach and cost approach.
Transfer out of Level 3 
 
 
 
There were no movement in level 3 in either directions during the year ended 31st March 2023 and the year ended 31st March 2022.
Ind AS 101 allows an entity to designate certain investments in equity instruments as fair valued through the OCI on the basis of the 
facts and circumstances at the transition date to Ind AS.
The Company has elected to apply this exemption for its investment in equity shares.
Sensitivity analysis 
 
 
 
Based on the valuation report for investments in unquoted shares, the sensitivity as on 31st March 2023 is provided below.
(  in Crores)
`
Significant observable inputs 
OCI 
 
 
10% Increase 
10% Decrease 
Equity securities in unquoted investments measured through OCI 
 
Impact of variation in fluctuation in the market prices of subsidiary companies / 
Gas marketing business of investee company 
As on 31st March 2023 
3.00  
(3.00)
As on 31st March 2022 
3.04  
(3.04)
C. 
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
 
The Company has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments: 
Ÿ  Credit risk ; 
Ÿ  Liquidity risk ; and 
Ÿ  Market risk 
 
 
 
i. 
Risk management framework 
 
 
 
 
The Company’s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company’s risk 
management framework. 
 
The Company has a well-defined Risk Management framework for reviewing the major risks and has adopted a Business Risk 
Management Policy which also takes care of all the financial risks. Further, pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 21 of SEBI 
(Listing obligation and disclosure Requirements) Regulation, 2015, the company has constituted a Risk Management 
Committee inter - alia to monitor the Risk Management Plan of the Company.  
 
 
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company’s 
activities.
ii. 
Credit risk 
 
 
 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Company's trade receivables from customers and security deposits.
169
Note 45 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS) AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued.....) 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
 
The carrying amount of following financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure:
(a) 
Other financial assets 
 
 
 
The company maintains its Cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks / financial institutions having good reputation, 
good past track record and high quality credit rating and also reviews their credit-worthiness on an on-going basis.
(b) 
Trade and other receivables 
 
 
 
The Company's exposure to credit Risk is the exposure that Company has on account of goods sold or services rendered to a 
contractual counterparty or counterparties, whether with collateral or otherwise for which the contracted consideration is yet 
to be received.  The Company's customer base are Industrial, Commercial-Non Commercial, Domestic and CNG. 
 
The Commercial and Marketing department has established a credit policy for each category of customer viz. industrial, 
domestic and commercial. 
 
The Company raises the invoice for quantities sold based on periodicity as per the agreement. Sales are subject to security 
deposit and/or bank guarantee clauses to ensure that in the event of non-payment the company's receivables are secured. In 
case of short/non receipt of security deposit/or bank guarantee, the Company is exposed to credit risk to that extent. 
 
For sales to domestic customers for household purposes like cooking, geyser application, etc., invoices are raised periodically.  
Security deposits along with connection deposits are taken for mitigation of potential credit risk arising in the event of non-
payment of invoices. Company is exposed to credit risk beyond the value of deposits.
 
CNG sales made through operators of the CNG stations owned by the Company and CNG Franchises outlet are exposed to 
credit risk as amounts so collected is deposited/transferred in company bank account on next working day. Bank Guarantee / 
Security Deposit is taken to mitigate the credit risk. In case of short/non receipt of security deposit/or bank guarantee, the 
Company is exposed to credit risk to that extent.
 
For CNG sales made through Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs), the Company raises the invoice for quantities sold based on 
periodicity as per the agreement. The OMCs are well established companies viz. HPCL, BPCL, IOCL, Nayara Energy (e-Essar Oil 
Ltd.) where no significant credit risk is anticipated.
 
The Company provides for allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of expected losses in respect of trade and 
other receivables. All trade receivables are reviewed and assessed for default on regular basis. Our historical experience of 
collecting receivables, supported by the level of default, is that credit risk is low. Credit risk is considered high when the counter 
party fails to make contractual payment within 180 days of when they fall due. The risk is determined by considering the 
business environment in which the company operates and other macro economic factors. 
 
Assets are written off when there are no reasonable expectation of recovery such as debtor declaring bankruptcy or failing to 
engage in a repayment plan with the Company. Where receivables have been written off the company continues to engage in 
enforcement activity to attempt to recover the receivables. where recoveries are made, these are recognised in profit and loss.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables by geographic region was as follows:
 (  in Crores)
`
 
    Particulars 
 
Carrying amount
 
 
 31st March 2023 31st March 2022
 
India 
 
 906.85 
869.39
 
Other regions 
 
 -    
 -   
 
Total 
 
 906.85 
 869.39
Expected credit loss for Trade receivables under Simplified Approach 
(  in Crores)
`
 
    Particulars 
 
Carrying amount
 
 
 31st March 2023 31st March 2022
 
Neither past due nor impaired 
 
 800.30  
 740.94
 
Past due 1–180 days 
 
 82.47 
 106.46
 
Past due 181–365 days 
 
 8.54  
6.93 
 
Past due 366 to 1095 days 
 
 6.97 
 6.40 
 
Greater than 1095 days 
 
 8.57  
 8.67 
 
 
  
906.85  
869.39 
 
Less: Expected credit losses (Allowance for bad and doubtful) 
 
 19.74  
 13.64 
 
Carrying amount of Trade Receivable (net of impairment) 
 
 887.11 
855.75
 
In addition to the historical pattern of credit loss, the Company has considered the likelihood of increased credit risk and 
consequential defaults considering emerging economic situations. The assessment is based on management estimates 
considering the nature of receivables and the market conditions.
170
Note 45 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS) AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued.....) 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
Movement in Allowance for bad and doubtful Trade receivable 
(  in Crores)
`
 
Particulars 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
 
Opening Allowance for bad and doubtful Trade receivable 
 13.64  
9.85
 
Add: Provision during the year 
 6.10 
3.79
 
Less: Write off during the year  
 -  
-
 
Closing Allowance for bad and doubtful Trade receivable 
  19.74  
13.64
 
The impairment provisions  above are based on management judgment / assumptions about risk of default and expected loss 
rates. The Company uses judgment in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs to the impairment calculation, based 
on the company's past history as well as forward looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
(c) Security deposits 
 
 
 
Company has given security deposit to various government authorities (like Municipal corporation, Nagarpalika, 
Grampanchayat,  Road & building division and Irrigation department -of Govt. of Gujarat etc. ) for the permission related to work 
of executing / laying pipeline network in their premises / jurisdiction. Being government authorities, the Company has no 
exposure to any credit risk.
Movement in Allowance for bad and doubtful Security deposits-Project authority 
(  in Crores)
`
 
Particulars 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
 
Opening Allowance for bad and doubtful Security deposits 
  11.78  
  13.38 
 
Provision during the year 
  1.16  
 1.33 
 
Recovery/Adjustment during the year 
  (2.51) 
 (2.93)
 
Write off during the year  
- 
-
 
Closing Allowance for bad and doubtful Security deposits 
  10.43   
  11.78 
 
The impairment provisions for financial assets - Security Deposit as disclosed above are based on management judgment / 
assumptions about risk of performance default . The Company uses judgment in making these assumptions and selecting the 
inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the company's past history  as well as forward looking estimates at the end of 
each reporting period. 
 
 
iii. 
Liquidity risk 
 
 
 
 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial 
liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Company’s approach to managing liquidity is to 
ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they are due, under both normal and 
stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Company’s reputation.
 
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Company’s liquidity position and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of 
expected cash flows. Short term liquidity requirements comprises mainly of trade payables arising in the normal course of 
business and is managed primarily through internal accruals and/or short term borrowings. Long term liquidity requirement is 
assessed by the management on periodical basis and managed through internal accruals as well as from undrawn borrowing 
facilities. 
Financing arrangement 
 
 
 
The Company had access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the reporting period:
 (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
31st March 2023 31st March 2022
Floating rate 
 
 
Expiring within one year (working capital, bank overdraft and other facilities) 
 1,257.47 
  557.47
 
Expiring beyond one year (working capital, bank overdraft and other facilities) 
 -    
 -    
Total 
  1,257.47   
  557.47 
Note 45 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS) AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued.....) 
171
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Exposure to liquidity risk 
 
 
 
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The amounts are gross and 
undiscounted, and include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting agreements.
`
 
(  in Crores)
31st March, 2023 
 
Total 
Less than 
1-2 years 
2-5 years 
More than
 
 
 
  12 months 
 
 
5 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non current borrowings 
 -   
 -   
 -    
 -   
 -  
 -  
 
Non current-Lease Liabilities 
 185.62  
 185.62  
 -    
 35.09  
 66.80  
 83.73
 
Current Borrowings 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Lease Liabilities 
 36.10  
 36.10  
 36.10  
 -    
 -    
 -  
 
Trade and other payables 
 715.58  
 715.58  
 715.58  
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Other current financial liabilities 
 1,897.86  
 1,897.86  
 1,897.86  
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Total 
 2,835.16  
 2,835.16   2,649.54  
 35.09  
 66.80  
 83.73
Undiscounted Contractual cash flows 
- 
Other current financial liabilities include customer deposits which are considered repayable on demand. 
 
- 
The gross inflows/(outflows) disclosed in the above table represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to 
 
non-derivative financial liabilities held for risk management purposes and which are not usually closed out before contractual maturity.
iv. 
Market risk
 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk, such as equity price risk. 
Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings, deposits and FVTOCI investments.
 
a)  Currency risk 
 
 
 
 
 
The functional currency of the Company is Indian Rupee (`). The Company's transactions are majorly denominated in INR 
and the quantum of the foreign currency transactions being immaterial, the company is not exposed to currency risk on 
account of payables and receivables in foreign currency. The company does not have any exports. Import amount to 0.95 % 
(Previous Year 0.84%) of total consumption of stores and spares, this is not perceived to be a major risk.
 
b)  Interest rate risk 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate risk can be either fair value interest rate risk or cash flow interest rate risk. Fair value interest rate risk is the risk 
of changes in fair values of fixed interest bearing investments because of fluctuations in the interest rates. Cash flow 
interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows of floating interest bearing investments will fluctuate because of 
fluctuations in the interest rates.
 
 
On period under review the Company do not have any borrowings at fixed rate and  has not entered into interest rate swaps 
for its exposure to long term borrowings at floating rate. 
 
 
 (  in Crores)
`
31st March, 2022 
 
Total 
Less than 
1-2 years 
2-5 years 
More than
 
 
 
  12 months 
 
 
5 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non current borrowings 
 390.97  
 390.97  
 -    
 86.88  
 260.64  
 43.45 
 
Non current-Lease Liabilities 
 189.52  
 189.52  
 -    
 30.07  
 74.73  
 84.72 
 
Current Borrowings 
 90.10  
 90.10  
 90.10  
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Lease Liabilities 
 29.96  
 29.96  
 29.96  
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Trade and other payables 
 445.63  
 445.63  
 445.63  
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Other current financial liabilities 
 1,841.96  
 1,841.96  
 1,841.96  
 -    
 -    
 -     
 
Total 
  2,988.14  
 2,988.14  
 2,407.65  
 116.95  
 335.37  
 128.17 
Undiscounted Contractual cash flows 
 (  in Crores)
`
Term Loan 
31st March, 2023 
31st March, 2022
Non current - Borrowings 
 -  
390.97
Current portion of Long term borrowings 
 -  
86.95
Total 
 -  
 477.92
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
Note 45 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS) AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued.....) 
Carrying
amount
Carrying
amount
172
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Sensitivity analysis
Profit or loss is sensitive to higher/lower interest expense from borrowings as a result of change in interest rates.
The Company does not account for any fixed-rate financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and the 
Company does not have any designate derivatives (interest rate swaps) . Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting date 
would not affect profit or loss.
A reasonably possible change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased (decreased) Equity and 
Profit or Loss by the amount shown below:
 
100 bp Increase 
100 bp decrease 
100 bp Increase 
100 bp decrease
31st March 2023
Non current - Borrowings 
 - 
- 
- 
-
Current portion of Long term borrowings 
 - 
 - 
- 
-
Total 
-  
-   
 -  
 - 
31st March 2022 
 
 
 
Non current - Borrowings 
(3.91) 
3.91  
  (2.93) 
 2.93 
Current portion of Long term borrowings 
  (0.87) 
  0.87   
 (0.65) 
  0.65 
Total 
  (4.78) 
  4.78  
  (3.58) 
  3.58 
Profit or (Loss)
Equity (net of tax) 
  Particulars
c)  
Commodity Price Risk 
 
 
 
 
Risk arising on account of fluctuations in price of natural gas is mitigated by ability to pass on the fluctuations in prices to 
customers over period of time. The company monitors movements in the prices closely on regular basis.
d) 
 Equity Price Risk 
 
 
 
 
The Company do not have any investment in quoted equity shares hence not exposed to equity price risk.
Note 46 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
Total equity as shown in the balance sheet includes equity share capital, general reserves and retained earnings. 
There are no interest bearing loans and borrowings by the Company as on 31st March 2023. 
 
The Company's objectives when managing capital is to Safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern, so that they can 
continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
The Company's policy is to maintain a stable and strong capital structure with a focus on total equity so as to maintain investor, 
creditors and market confidence and to sustain future  development and growth of its business. The Company will take appropriate 
steps in order to maintain, or if necessary adjust, its capital structure. The management monitors the return on capital as well as the 
level of dividends to shareholders.
The Company monitors capital using a ratio of ‘adjusted net debt’ to ‘adjusted equity’. For this purpose, adjusted net debt is defined as 
total liabilities, comprising interest-bearing loans and borrowings, less cash and bank balances. Adjusted equity comprises all 
components of equity.
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
The Company’s adjusted net debt to equity ratio is as follows. 
(  in Crores)
`
 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 31st March 2023 
 
As at 31st March 2022
Long term borrowings* 
 -    
 477.92  
Total equity 
  6,995.61     
 5,599.30 
Debt equity ratio 
 -     
 0.09 
Long term borrowings* 
  -      
 477.92 
Short term borrowings 
 -     
 3.15  
Interest bearing borrowings 
 -     
  481.07  
Less : Cash and bank balances 
  680.98   
   21.13 
Adjusted net debt 
 -     
  459.94 
Adjusted net debt to adjusted equity ratio 
 -      
 0.08 
173
 (  in Crores)
`
*There are no interest bearing loans and borrowings by the Company as on 31st March 2023.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 45 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS) AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued.....) 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
Note 47 DISCLOSURE OF  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS  
 
 
 
The Company has implemented Ind AS - 19 on “Employee Benefits”.
(a) Contributions to Defined Contribution Plan, recognised as expense for the year are as under: 
(` in Crores)
Sr. Particulars 
 For the year ended 
For the year ended
No.  
  31st March, 2023 
31st March, 2022
(I) 
Provident Fund 
 
 10.57  
 9.81
(ii) National Pension Scheme 
 
  4.99  
 4.42
(b)  Gratuity and Leave Encashment - Defined Benefit Plans (payable in future)
 
Provision has been made for gratuity and leave encashment (earned leave) as per actuarial valuation. The principal assumptions 
used in actuarial valuation and necessary disclosures are as below: 
 
 
*The Company expects that total outstanding gratuity liability payable as on 31.03.2023 will be paid to the gratuity trust within 
next 12 months.
174
(  in Crores)
`
  
 
Gratuity 
Leave 
Gratuity 
Leave
  
  
 
Encashment 
 
Encashment
A. 
Assumptions 
  
Discount rate 
7.50% 
7.50% 
7.00% 
7.00%
  
Rate of return on plan assets 
7.50% 
N.A. 
7.00% 
N.A.
  
Salary Escalation 
10.00% 
10.00% 
10.00% 
10.00%
B. 
Change in Defined Benefit Obligations 
 
 
 
 
  
Liability at the beginning of the year 
  83.01  
 55.40  
 76.37  
 52.05 
  
Transfer in/(out) obligation 
  (0.04) 
- 
 (0.07) 
-
  
Interest Cost 
 5.62  
 3.79  
 4.84  
 3.32 
  
Current Service Cost 
  6.25  
 3.88  
 6.09  
 3.98 
  
Benefits Paid 
 (5.20) 
 (4.05) 
 (3.17) 
 (3.03)
  
Actuarial (Gain) / loss due to experience adjustment 
 (0.33) 
 0.55  
 4.40  
 3.36 
  
Actuarial (Gain) / Loss due to change in financial estimate 
 (4.82) 
 (3.73) 
 (5.45) 
(4.28)
  
Total Liability at the end of the year  
  84.48  
 55.83  
 83.01  
 55.40 
C. 
Change in Fair Value of plan Assets 
 
 
 
 
  
Opening fair Value of plan assets 
82.85  
 -    
 75.85  
 -   
  
Transfer in/(out) plan assets 
(0.04) 
 -    
 (0.07) 
-   
  
Expected return on plan assets 
5.83  
 -    
 5.00  
 -   
  
Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in interest income 
(2.08) 
 -    
 (0.29) 
 -   
  
Contributions by employer 
 -    
 -    
 5.52  
 -   
  
Benefits Paid 
(5.20) 
 -    
 (3.17) 
 -   
  
Closing fair Value of plan assets 
 81.35  
 -    
 82.85  
 -  
D. 
Expenses Recognised in the Statement of Profit & Loss 
  
Current Service Cost 
 6.25  
 3.88  
 6.09  
 3.98 
  
Interest Cost 
5.62  
 3.79  
 4.84  
 3.32 
  
Expected return on plan assets 
(5.83) 
 -    
 (5.00) 
-   
  
Actuarial (Gain) / Loss 
(3.07) 
 (3.18) 
 (0.76) 
 (0.91)
  
Expenses charged to Statement of Profit & Loss  
2.97  
 4.48  
 5.16  
 6.38
E. 
Balance Sheet Reconciliation 
 
 
 
 
  
Opening Net Liability 
0.16  
 55.40  
 0.52  
 52.05 
  
Employee Benefit Expense 
6.04  
 4.48  
 5.93  
 6.38 
  
Amounts recognized in Other Comprehensive Income 
(3.07) 
 -    
 (0.76) 
 -   
  
Contributions by employer 
-    
 -    
 (5.52) 
 -   
  
Benefits Paid 
-    
 (4.05) 
 -    
 (3.03)
  
Closing Liability 
3.13  
 55.83  
 0.16  
 55.40 
F. 
Current/Non-Current Liability : 
 
 
 
 
  
Current* 
3.13  
 1.81  
 0.16  
 2.65 
  
Non-Current 
-    
 54.02  
 -    
 52.75
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Sr.      Particulars
No.
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
(c ) Amounts recognised in current year and previous four years 
(  in Crores)
`
Sr. 
Particulars 
As at 31st  
As at 31st 
As at 31st  
As at 31st  
As at 31st
  
 
March 2023   March 2022 
March 2021 
March 2020 
March 2019
 A. Gratuity 
 
 
 
 
  
Present value of Defined Benefit Obligation 
 84.48  
 83.01  
 76.37  
 67.96  
 55.28 
  
Fair value of Plan Assets 
 81.35  
 82.85  
 75.85  
 56.19  
 47.91 
  
(Surplus) / Deficit in the plan 
 3.13  
 0.16  
 0.52  
 11.77  
 7.37 
  
Actuarial (Gain) / Loss on Plan Obligation 
 (4.82) 
 (5.45) 
 3.56  
 5.34  
 3.69 
  
Actuarial Gain / (Loss) on Plan Assets 
 (2.08) 
 (0.29) 
 1.98  
 (0.05) 
 (0.24)
 B. 
Earned Leave (Leave encashment) 
 
 
 
 
  
Present value of Defined Benefit Obligation 
 55.83  
 55.40  
 52.05  
 45.54  
 39.71 
  
Actuarial (Gain) / Loss on Plan Obligation 
 (3.73) 
 (4.28) 
 2.83  
 4.16  
 3.10 
 C. Long Service Award 
 
 
 
 
  
Present value of Defined Benefit Obligation 
 1.05  
1.00 
 0.97  
 0.89  
 0.81 
  
Actuarial (Gain) / Loss on Plan Obligation 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -  
(d)  Sensitivity analysis 
 
 
 
 
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions 
constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below.
 
Gratuity 
Leave Encashment 
Gratuity 
Leave Encashment
Discount rate (0.5% movement) 
 80.05  
 52.42  
 89.30  
 59.56 
Salary growth rate (0.5% movement) 
89.35  
 59.59  
 79.96  
 52.36 
Withdrawal rate (W.R.) varied by 10 % 
 84.26  
 55.60  
 84.73  
 56.06
As at 31st March 2023
  Particulars
 Increase  
Decrease
(  in Crores)
`
 
Gratuity 
Leave Encashment 
Gratuity 
Leave Encashment
Discount rate (0.5% movement) 
 78.49  
 51.88  
 87.94  
 59.27 
Salary growth rate (0.5% movement) 
87.96  
 59.27  
 78.42  
 51.84 
Withdrawal rate (W.R.) varied by 10 % 
82.68  
 55.11  
 83.34  
 55.70 
As at 31st March 2022
  Particulars
 Increase  
Decrease
(  in Crores)
`
(e) Gratuity Benefits Plan: 
 
 
 
 
The benefit is governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (as amended). The Key features are as under:
Features of the defined benefit plan 
Remarks 
 
Benefit offered 
15 / 26 × Salary × Duration of Service 
 
Salary definition 
Basic Salary including Dearness Allowance (if any) 
 
Benefit ceiling 
No ceiling 
 
Vesting conditions 
5 years of continuous service (Not applicable in case of death / disability) 
 
Benefit eligibility 
Upon Death or Resignation / Withdrawal or Retirement 
 
Retirement age 
60 years
(i) 
Entity’s responsibilities for the governance of the plan : 
 
 
 
Risk to the Plan 
 
 
 
 
Following are the risk to which the plan exposes the entity : 
 
 : 
 
A Actuarial Risk: 
 
 
 
 
 
It is the risk that benefits will cost more than expected. This can arise due to one of the following reasons:
 
 
-Adverse Salary Growth Experience: Salary hikes that are higher than the assumed salary escalation will result into an 
increase in Obligation at a rate that is higher than expected.
 
 
-Variability in mortality rates: If actual mortality rates are higher than assumed mortality rate assumption than the Gratuity 
benefits will be paid earlier than expected. Since there is no condition of vesting on the death benefit, the acceleration of 
cash flow will lead to an actuarial loss or gain depending on the relative values of the assumed salary growth and discount 
rate.
 
 
-Variability in withdrawal rates: If actual withdrawal rates are higher than assumed withdrawal rate assumption than the 
Gratuity benefits will be paid earlier than expected. The impact of this will depend on whether the benefits are vested as at 
the resignation date.
175
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 47 DISCLOSURE OF  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (continued.....)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
176
 
B 
Investment Risk: 
 
 
 
 
 
For funded plans that rely on insurers for managing the assets, the value of assets certified by the insurer may not be the fair 
value of instruments backing the liability. In such cases, the present value of the assets is independent of the future discount 
rate. This can result in wide fluctuations in the net liability or the funded status if there are significant changes in the discount 
rate during the inter-valuation period.
 
C Liquidity Risk: 
 
 
 
 
 
Employees with high salaries and long durations or those higher in hierarchy, accumulate significant level of benefits. If 
some of such employees resign / retire from the company there can be strain on the cash flows.
 
D Market Risk: 
 
 
 
 
 
Market risk is a collective term for risks that are related to the changes and fluctuations of the financial markets. One 
actuarial assumption that has a material effect is the discount rate. The discount rate reflects the time value of money. An 
increase in discount rate leads to decrease in Defined Benefit Obligation of the plan benefits & vice versa. This assumption 
depends on the yields on the corporate / government bonds and hence the valuation of liability is exposed to fluctuations in 
the yields as at the valuation date. 
 
E 
Legislative Risk: 
 
 
 
 
 
Legislative risk is the risk of increase in the plan liabilities or reduction in the plan assets due to change in the legislation / 
regulation. The government may amend the Payment of Gratuity Act thus requiring the companies to pay higher benefits to 
the employees. This will directly affect the present value of the Defined Benefit Obligation and the same will have to be 
recognized immediately in the year when any such amendment is effective.
(ii) 
The company has participated in Group Gratuity Scheme Plan with Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), HDFC Life 
Insurance Co. Ltd, Aditya Birla Sun Life Insurance Co. Ltd, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Co. Ltd,  SBI Life Insurance Co. Ltd., Bajaj 
Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd and Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Co. Ltd   (collectively referred as Insurance Co.) through 
Gratuity Trust to meet its gratuity liability. The present value of the plan assets represents the balance available at the end of the 
year. The total value of plan assets is as certified by the various Insurance Co. 
 
(a) Composition of the plan assets: -
Particulars 
As at 31st March 2023 
As at 31st March 2022  
As at31st March 2021
Bank balance 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00%
Policy of insurance 
100.00% 
100.00% 
100.00%
Others 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00%
 (b) The trustees of the plan have outsourced the investment management of the fund to an insurance company. The insurance 
company in turn manages these funds as per the mandate provided to them by the trustees and the asset allocation which 
is within the permissible limits prescribed in the insurance regulations. Due to the restrictions in the type of investments 
that can be held by the fund, it may not be possible to explicitly follow an asset-liability matching strategy to manage risk 
actively in a conventional fund.
 (c) Expected benefit payments for gratuity as on 31st March 2023.
(f)  Expected benefit payments as on 31st March 2023 for Privilege Leave encashment benefits.
Particulars 
1-3 years 
4-5 years 
 6 year & Above 
Cash flow ( ` in Crores) 
12.78  
 14.91  
 204.66 
Distribution ( in %) 
5.50% 
6.40% 
88.10%
Particulars 
1-3 years 
4-5 years 
 6 year & Above 
Cash flow (` in Crores) 
6.19  
 8.02  
 162.49 
Distribution ( in %) 
3.50% 
4.60% 
91.90%
(g) Other Notes: 
 
 
 
 
(i)  The expected rate of return on Plan Assets is determined considering several applicable factors, mainly the composition of 
Plan Assets held, assessed risks, historical results of return on Plan Assets and the Company’s policy for the Plan Assets 
management. 
 
 
 
 
(ii) The actuarial valuation takes into account the estimates of future salary increases, inflation, seniority, promotion and other 
relevant factors such as supply and demand in the employment market. The management has relied on the overall actuarial 
valuation conducted by the actuary.
 
(iii) The company has provided long service award benefits to its employees who completed 15/20/25 Years of employment 
with company. Long Service Awards are recognised as a liability based on actuarial valuation of the defined benefit 
obligation as at the balance sheet date. Accordingly, expenses of  0.10 Crores (previous year  0.10 Crores) has been 
`
`
charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss towards Long service awards. The Company has recognised Current Liability 
of  0.07 Crores (Previous year  0.07 Crores) and Non- Current Liability of  0.98 Crores (Previous year  0.93 Crores) as 
 `
`
`
`
at 31st March 2023 and Discount rate considered for current year is 7.50% (previous year 7.00%).
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 47 DISCLOSURE OF  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (continued.....)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
177
 
(iv) The Company has provided  Nil (previous year  3.85 Crores) during the year on account of death compensation benefits 
`
`
and current provision as on 31st March 2023 is Nil (previous year  3.05 Crores) as the Company has taken group life 
`
insurance policy during the year.
 
(v) The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post-employment 
benefits received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. However, 
the date on which the Code will come in to effect has not been notified. 
 
 
The Company will assess the impact of the Code when it comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period 
when the Code becomes effective.
 
(vi) Employee Stock Option Plan :  There are no options outstanding as on 31st March 2023, 31st March 2022.
Note 48  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
As per the Indian Accounting Standard-24 on “Related Party Disclosures”, list of parent & subsidiary of the Company are as follows.
(a)  Parent Entity 
 
 
Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited (GSPC) -Ultimate Holding Company (w.e.f.,20th  October,2022) & Intermediate 
 
Holding Company (upto 19th October, 2022)
 
Gujarat State Petronet Limited (GSPL) - Holding Company 
 
 
Gujarat  State Investment Limited (GSIL) - Ultimate Holding Company (Upto 19th October, 2022)
(b)  Subsidiary / Associate / Enterprise Controlled by the Company 
 
Guj Info Petro Limited- GIPL - Associate 
 
 
Gujarat Gas Limited Employee Stock Option Welfare Trust - Enterprise controlled by the company 
 
 
Gujarat Gas Limited Employees Group Gratuity Scheme - Enterprise controlled by the company
Related Party Transactions for the year ended 31st March, 2023 
(` in Crores)
 Sr. Name of Related Party 
Relationship 
Nature of Transactions & Balances 
For the year 
For the year
 no.  
 
 
 
ended  31st 
ended  31st
  
 
 
 
 
March, 2023 March, 2022
1  
Gujarat State  
Ultimate Holding  Purchase of Natural Gas (NG) 
 11,299.90  
 13,769.21 
  
Petroleum Corporation  
Company  
Rent Expense 
 0.00  
 0.00 
  
Limited - GSPC 
(w.e.f. 20th  
Brokerage Services for NG Trading 
 1.36  
 -   
  
 
October,2022) 
Gas Transportation Charges 
 1.13  
 -   
  
 
Intermediate  
Reimbursement of Expenses 
 0.77  
 0.69 
  
 
Holding Company  Recharge of Salary - Expense  
 0.89  
 0.63 
  
 
(Upto 19th  
Sale of Natural Gas 
 17.98  
 -   
  
 
October, 2022) 
Income from Material sale 
 -    
 0.01 
  
 
 
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund) 
 (0.02) 
 0.02 
  
 
 
Balance at period end 
 
  
 
 
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
 (307.51) 
 (212.27)
  
 
 
Investment at Period end 
 30.38  
 22.36 
  
 
 
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net 
 -    
 0.02 
  
 
 
Bank Guarantee  by GGL to GSPC 
 938.96  
 1,326.92 
  
 
 
Letter of Credit - by GGL to GSPC 
 391.58  
 -   
2  
Gujarat State 
Holding Company  Gas Transmission Expense 
 451.68  
 542.13 
  
 Petronet Limited - GSPL 
 
Purchase of Natural Gas  
 -    
 2.23 
  
 
 
Right of Way Expense - Exps / (Refund) 
 0.52  
 0.10 
  
 
 
Connectivity Charges  
 1.69  
 -   
  
 
 
Business Transfer- CGD Business of Amritsar &  
 -    
 153.86 
  
 
 
Bhatinda from GSPL to GGL
  
 
 
Reimbursement of Expenses 
 0.34  
 0.28 
  
 
 
Dividend Paid 
 74.57  
 74.57 
  
 
 
Rent Expense 
 2.85  
 2.27 
  
 
 
Recharge of Salary - Expense  
 0.04  
 0.04 
  
 
 
Compression Charges  
 -    
 2.87 
  
 
 
Reimbursement of Deposit Receivable from Authorities 
 0.28  
 -   
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 47 DISCLOSURE OF  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (continued.....)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
178
 Sr. Name of Related Party 
Relationship 
Nature of Transactions & Balances 
For the year 
For the year
 no.  
 
 
 
ended  31st 
ended  31st
  
 
 
 
 
March, 2023 March, 2022
  
 
 
O&M Charges  - Income 
 0.05  
 0.04 
  
 
 
Rent - Income 
 0.03  
 0.03 
  
 
 
Reimbursement of Expenses - Income 
 0.01  
 10.01 
  
 
 
Recharge of Salary - Income  
 1.08  
 1.03 
  
 
 
Sale of Material - Income 
 -    
 0.23 
  
 
 
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund) [Other than Connectivity] 
 0.44  
 (0.02)
  
 
 
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund)  [For Connectivity] 
 12.00  
 4.00 
  
 
 
Supervision Charges -Income 
 -    
 0.01 
  
 
 
Interest On Late Payment 
 -    
 0.01 
  
 
 
Asset Purchase 
 8.05  
 -   
  
 
 
Balance at the period end 
 
   
  
 
 
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
 (23.36) 
 (19.36)
  
 
 
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net  
 2.47  
 2.03 
  
 
 
[Other than Connectivity]
  
 
 
Deposit (For Connectivity) 
 51.32  
 39.32 
  
 
 
Bank Guarantee - by GGL to GSPL 
 52.92  
 52.92 
  
 
 
Letter of Credit - by GGL to GSPL 
 0.10  
 0.10 
3  
Sabarmati Gas  
Associate of  
Gas Transportation Expense 
 0.76  
 0.68 
  
Limited - SGL 
Holding 
Compression Charges 
 3.54  
 1.70 
  
 
Company 
Supervision Charges Expense 
 -    
 0.04 
  
 
 
Gas Transportation Charges - Income 
 0.41  
 0.35 
  
 
 
Consulting Charges - Income 
 -    
 0.24 
  
 
 
Misc. Income 
 0.00  
 -   
  
 
 
Income from Material sale 
 1.68  
 0.78 
  
 
 
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund) 
 (0.06) 
 0.04 
  
 
 
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
 
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
 (0.12) 
 0.30 
  
 
 
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net 
 -    
 0.06 
  
 
 
Bank Guarantee - by GGL to SGL 
 0.20  
 0.16 
4  
Guj Info Petro Limited-  
Associate 
Web Development / Bandwidth Charges  
 0.00  
 0.02 
  
GIPL 
 
Software Maintenance Expenses 
 0.01  
 -   
  
 
 
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
 
Investment at Period end 
 0.03  
 0.03 
5  
Gujarat State Energy  
Associate of    
Dividend Paid 
 0.27  
 0.27 
  
Generation Limited -  
Ultimate 
Reimbursement of Expense 
 0.00  
 -   
  
GSEG 
Holding  
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
Company 
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net 
 (0.10) 
 (0.10)
  
 
(w.e.f. 20th
  
 
October,2022)
  
 
Associate of
  
 
Intermediate
  
 
Holding 
  
 
Company
  
 
(Upto 19th
  
 
October, 2022)
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 48 Related Party Transactions for the year ended 31st March, 2023 (Continued .....) 
(` in Crores)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
179
 Sr. Name of Related Party 
Relationship 
Nature of Transactions & Balances 
For the year 
For the year
 no.  
 
 
 
ended  31st 
ended  31st
  
 
 
 
 
March, 2023 March, 2022
6  
GSPL India Gasnet  
Joint Venture  
Rent Expenses 
 0.68  
 0.65 
  
Limited - GIGL 
of Holding  
Gas Transportation Expense 
 0.73  
 0.48 
  
 
Company 
Right of Way Expense (ROW) 
 0.01  
 0.09 
  
 
 
O&M Charges 
 0.64  
 0.07 
  
 
 
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund) [Other than Connectivity] 
 (0.08) 
 0.14 
  
 
 
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund)  [For Connectivity] 
 12.00  
 10.15 
  
 
 
Interest Paid 
 0.00  
 -   
  
 
 
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
 
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
 (0.03) 
 (0.04)
  
 
 
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net [Other than Connectivity] 
 0.16  
 0.24 
  
 
 
Deposit (For Connectivity) 
 50.15  
 38.15 
  
 
 
Bank Guarantee - by GGL to GIGL 
 0.07  
 0.06 
7  
GSPL India Transco  
Joint Venture 
Reimbursement of Exp -Income 
 -    
 0.00 
  
Limited - GITL 
of Holding  
Rent Expenses 
 0.05  
 0.04 
  
 
Company
8  
Gujarat State Fertilizers & Associate of 
Rent Expenses 
 0.41  
 0.53 
  
Chemicals Limited  
Ultimate Holding Dividend Paid 
 9.38  
 9.38 
  
 
Company 
Maintainance Charges Paid 
 0.05  
 0.07 
  
 
(Upto 19th  
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
October, 2022) Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net 
 -    
 0.09 
9  
Gujarat Alkalies  &  
 Associate of  
Dividend Paid 
 4.26  
 4.26 
  
Chemicals Limited 
Ultimate Holding  Deposit Given  / (Refund) 
 -    
 (0.02)
  
 
Company 
Supervision Charges -Income 
 -    
 0.01 
  
 
(Upto 19th  
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
October, 2022) Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net 
 -  
 (0.04) 
10 
Gujarat Narmada Valley 
Associate of 
Rent Expenses 
 0.04  
 0.07 
  
Fertilizers & Chemicals 
Ultimate 
Technology Services 
 0.06  
 0.14 
  
 Limited 
Holding 
Dividend Paid 
 0.05  
 0.05 
  
 
(Upto 19th 
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
October 2022) 
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
 -  
(0.02)
11 
Gujarat State Financial  
Associate of 
Interest received - Income 
 7.25  
 12.22 
  
Services  Limited - GSFS 
Ultimate  
Deposit - Placed/ Renewed  
 6,982.50  
 11,342.25 
  
 
Holding  
Deposit - Withdrawn / Redeemed  
 6,233.00  
 11,603.25 
  
 
Company 
Balance at the period end
  
 
(Upto 19th 
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
 - 
-
  
 
October, 2022)
12 
Gujarat Gas Limited 
Enterprise  
Amount Received from Trust on behalf of employees 
 2.46  
 -   
  
Employee Stock Option  
controlled by 
Amount paid to employees on behalf of Trust 
 2.46  
-
  
Welfare Trust   
 the company 
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
 
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
 0.00  
 -   
13 
Gujarat Gas Limited  
Enterprise 
Gratuity Contribution Paid 
 -    
 5.36 
  
Employees Group  
controlled by
  
Gratuity Scheme 
the company
14 
Shri. Sanjeev Kumar, IAS  
Key Managerial  Sitting Fees (Deposited in Govt. Treasury
  
 - Managing Director 
Person 
 Account) - Nil (Previous Year - Nil) 
- 
-
  
(Upto 31st March 2023)  
Out of Pocket Expenses - Nil (Previous Year - Nil)  
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 48 Related Party Transactions for the year ended 31st March, 2023 (Continued .....) 
(` in Crores)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
180
Notes  
 
 
 
 
1 
The company deals on regular basis with entities (apart from Group Companies) directly or indirectly controlled by the State 
Government of Gujarat.  Such entities are collectively referred as “Government related entities” and includes companies in 
which Government of Gujarat has majority shareholding, government authorities, agencies, affiliations and other organizations.  
 
Apart from transactions with its group companies, the Company has transactions with government related entities, including 
but not limited to the followings: 
  
- Sale and Purchase of Natural Gas
 
- Investment, renewal & redemption of funds/deposits 
 
- Interest income from investments in deposits
 
- Payment of Dividend 
 
- Rendering and Receiving Services
 
- Payment of Rent
 
- Use of Public Utilities 
 
Below are the details of significant tranactions carried with Government Related Entities in FY 2022-23.   In order to determine 
the level of significance of the transaction with Government Related Entities, threshold limits have been considered as 
prescribed in the defintion of Material Related Party Transaction” of GGL's “Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions 
and dealing with Related Party Transactions”.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(` in Crores)
Name of Related Party 
Relationship 
Nature of Transactions  
For the Period 20th 
 
 
 
& Balances 
 October 2022 to 31st 
 
 
 
 
March 2023
Gujarat State  
Government Related Entity  Interest received - Income 
 14.42 
Financial Services  
(w.e.f 20th October 2022) Deposit - Placed/ Renewed  
 6,675.50 
Limited - GSFS 
 
Deposit - Withdrawn / Redemed 
 6,801.00 
 
 
 
Balance at the period end
 
 
 
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net 
 624.00 
2 
The company sells natural gas to domestic, commercial, industrial and CNG consumers. The above related party transaction do  
 
not include the transactions of Gas sales to the related parties in ordinary course of business, as all such transactions are done 
 
at arm’s length basis.  As per Para 11(c)(iii) of Ind AS-24 “Related Party Disclosures”, normal dealings of Company with related 
 
parties by virtue of public utilities are excluded from the purview of Related Party Disclosures.
3 
In compliance to the provisions of Section 2(51) of Companies Act-2013, the following are the details of remuneration 
 
paid/payable to KMP - Chief Financial Officer & Company Secretary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(` in Crores)
 Sr. 
Particulars 
 For the year ended  For the year ended 
 No.  
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
 1.  
Shri. Nitesh Bhandari – Chief Financial Officer [Refere Note (i)] 
1.41 
1.30
  
Short Term Benefits – ` 1.23 Crores  (P.Y. ` 1.13 Crores)
  
Post-Employment Benefits – ` 0.18 Crores (P.Y. ` 0.17 Crores)
2. 
Shri. Sandeep Dave – Company Secretary [Refere Note (ii)] 
0.68 
0.54
  
Short Term Benefits – ` 0.59 Crores (P.Y. ` 0.46 Crores)
  
Post-Employment Benefits – ` 0.09 Crores (P.Y. ` 0.08 Crores)
Notes:
(i)  
Remuneration does not include provision for leave encashment (provided in books as per actuarial valuation), mediclaim 
insurance, life insurance cover, etc which are extended for the company as a whole as per HR Policy and hence individual figures 
cannot be identified.  Leave encashment paid during the year have been included in remuneration.  
(ii)  Remuneration breakup is based on the salary reimbursed to GSPC.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 48 Related Party Transactions for the year ended 31st March, 2023 (Continued .....)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
181
4 
Details of Sitting Fees & Out of Pocket Expenses (in total) paid to Directors other than Managing Director
 Sr. 
Particulars 
 For the year ended  For the year ended 
 No.  
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
1.  
Shri. Anil Mukim, IAS - Chairman # (upto 03.09.2021) 
-    
 0.00 
2.  
Smt. Sunaina Tomar, IAS # (upto 05.07.2021) 
-    
 0.00 
3.  
Dr. Manjula Subramanium, IAS (Retd.) (upto 28.01.2022) 
-    
 0.00 
4.  
Shri. Milind Torawane, IAS # (upto 30.12.2022) 
0.02  
 0.02 
5.  
Shri. K. D. Chatterjee (upto 20.04.2022) 
0.00  
 0.04 
6.  
Shri. Jal Patel (upto 20.04.2022) 
0.00  
 0.03 
7.  
Prof. Piyush Kumar Sinha (upto 15.08.2021) 
-    
 0.01 
8.  
Prof. Vishal Gupta (upto 15.08.2021) 
-    
 0.01 
9.  
Prof. Yogesh Singh 
0.01  
 0.01 
10.  
Shri Bhadresh Mehta 
0.04  
 0.01 
11.  
Dr. Rajiv kumar Gupta, IAS # (upto 08.06.2022) 
0.00  
 0.00 
12.  
Shri Pankaj Kumar, IAS # (upto 01.02.2023) 
0.00  
 0.00 
13.  
Shri Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) (w.e.f., 20.04.2022) 
0.03  
 -   
14.  
Dr. Rekha Jain (w.e.f., 20.04.2022) 
0.02  
 -   
15.  
Shri Raj Kumar, IAS # (w.e.f. 21.07.2022) 
0.00  
 -  
(` in Crores)
(` in Crores)
Particulars 
For the year ended  
For the year ended  
  
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022 
  
Revenue as per contracted price 
 17,364.76 
  16,814.40
Adjustments :
 
 Provision for revenue contract price 
  (58.60) 
  (27.05)
Revenue from contract with customers 
  17,306.16  
 16,787.35
# Sitting fees payable to directors are deposited in Government Treasury Account
5 
There has been change in shareholding of Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited (GSPC) in lieu of which Gujarat State  
 
Investment Limited (GSIL) ceased to be holding company of GSPC w.e.f 19th October 2022. Consequently, GSIL has ceased 
 
to be Ultimate Holding company of Gujarat Gas Limited w.e.f. 19th October, 2022.  Accordingly, related party transactions 
 
with Assocites of GSIL have been reported till 19th October 2022. 
 
 
 
6 
All transactions with related parties were carried out in the ordinary course of business and at arm’s length. 
 
7 
All transactions amount disclosed above are inclusive of tax. 
 
 
 
8 
Bank Guarantees, Letter of Credits provided to related parties are for routine business activity such as Gas procurement, 
 
Transmission and  Compression service etc.  
 
 
9 
Deposits  given/ received (other than investment made in GSFS) to related parties are for routine business activity . 
10 
Figures INR 0.00 denotes amount less than INR 50,000/-. 
Note 49  RECEIVABLES, CONTRACT ASSETS AND CONTRACT LIABILITIES 
 
(WITH REFERENCE TO IND AS 115 - REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS)
Revenue recognised in the statement of profit and loss :
Revenue from contracts with customers (refer note 31): 
Sale of Natural gas is the main activity of city gas distribution business and other operating income is incidental to sale of natural gas. 
Company sells and distributes natural gas in India.
Sale of natural gas includes excise duty but excludes VAT and GST collected from the customers on behalf of the Government. All the 
revenue mentioned above are earned by transfer of goods or services at a point of time.
Reconciliation of the amount of revenue recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss with the contracted price :
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 48 Related Party Transactions for the year ended 31st March, 2023 (Continued .....) 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
 Sr. 
Particulars 
 
As at 31st   
As at 31st
No. 
 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 (i) 
Receivables 
 
 
  
Trade receivables 
 887.11  
 855.75 
  
Unbilled Revenue 
 134.04  
 74.30 
  
Total Trade receivables 
 1,021.15  
 930.05 
(ii) 
Current Financial Liabilities - Others (Contract liabilities)
  
Security Deposits from customers 
 1,394.49  
 1,326.45 
  
Security Deposit from customers towards MGO  
  151.24  
 151.85 
  
Interest accrued on security deposits from customers  
 14.12  
 11.86  
  
Total Current Financial Liabilities - Others (Contract Liabilities) 
 1,559.85  
 1,490.16 
 (iii) 
Contract liabilities  (Current Liabilities - Others)
  
Advance from customers 
 77.35  
 30.33 
   
Total contract liabilities  (Current Liabilities - Others) 
 77.35  
 30.33 
(iv) Deferred Revenue
  
Non Current 
 71.08  
 68.83 
  
Current 
  11.70  
 10.59 
  
Total Deferred Revenue 
 82.78  
 79.42 
 (v) 
Income recognised during the year out of opening balance of deferred revenue 
 11.30  
 9.85 
182
The following table provides information about receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities from contract with 
customers: 
(` in Crores)
Contract asset is the right to consideration in exchange for goods or services transferred to the customer. Contract liability is the 
entity’s obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the entity has received consideration from the customer in 
advance. Contract assets (unbilled receivables) are transferred to receivables when the rights become unconditional and contract 
liabilities are recognised as and when the performance obligation is satisfied. 
Performance obligations -Connection, Service and Fitting Income 
Connection charges from customers deferred over the period when the performance obligation is satisfied:  
Industrial Customers: The performance obligations as per the contractual arrangement with the customer is to deliver gas over the 
tenure of the contract. Consequently, the connection charges is to be deferred over the contract period. 
Domestic Customer: The connection charges is to be deferred over the period of delivery of gas. It is reasonably expected by the 
Company that the gas is procured by the customer and supplied by the Company on a perpetual basis. Consequently the connection 
charges are to be deferred over the useful life of the connection facility (i.e. 18 years). 
Note 50  LEASES (Ind AS 116)
 
The Company has adopted Ind AS 116 ‘Leases', effective from 1st April, 2019, using modified retrospective approach. 
Note 50.1 The Company as a lessee
 
The Company has taken various assets on lease primarily consist of leases for land, buildings, vehicles and Plant & 
machinery. Under Ind AS 116, the Company recognises right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. 
 
The weighted average incremental borrowing rate of 8.59% p.a. has been applied to lease liabilities recognised in the 
balance sheet at the date of initial application. 
 
The likely weighted average incremental borrowing rate of 5.5 % to 8 % p.a. has been applied to lease liabilities recognised in 
the balance sheet during the year.
50.1.1   The Company used a number of practical expedients summarised here below:
 
1) 
Applied the exemption not to recognize right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases with less than 12 months of lease 
term on the date of initial application.  
 
2) 
Applied the exemption not to recognize right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases of low value assets.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 49 
 (Continued .....) 
RECEIVABLES, CONTRACT ASSETS AND CONTRACT LIABILITIES
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
183
50.1.2 Nature of the lease transaction:
 
Land Leases  
 
The Company has taken several plots of land on lease for setting up CNG, City Gas Station, CPRS/DPRS station and for site 
office purpose. The lease term mentioned in the agreements ranges from 11 months to 99 years. Lease agreements are 
renewable on mutually agreed terms and do not contain any non-cancellable period. In certain contacts, the Company is 
restricted from assigning and subletting the leased assets.
 
Building Leases   
 
The Company has taken various office/warehouse buildings on lease with monthly and annual payment terms. The lease 
term mentioned in the agreements ranges from 11 months to 9 years. Most of the agreements are renewable on mutually 
agreed terms, some of them are having non - cancellable period  whereas few agreements are silent on renewal. In certain 
contacts, the Company is restricted from assigning and subletting the leased assets.
 
Other Leases 
 
The Company has also taken various commercial vehicles,  CNG Cascade, booster compressor and other equipments, IT 
equipment etc. on lease.  The lease term mentioned in the agreements ranges from 6 months to 10 years.  Some portion of 
the lease rentals is based on usage of the equipment considered as variable lease payment. Lease rentals include lease and 
non lease component viz. manpower, fuel cost, repair and maintenance etc. and only hiring portion is considered for ROU 
accounting.
50.1.3 The following is the carrying amounts of Company's Right of use assets and the movement in lease liabilities during the year 
ended March 31, 2023.
(` in Crores)
 
Gross Carrying Value 
 
Opening balance 
  290.13  
 188.91 
Addition during the year 
 33.74  
 81.18 
Other adjustment/ Reassessment 
 0.04  
 29.65 
Deduction during the year 
  7.16  
 9.61 
Closing Balance (A) 
 316.75  
 290.13
Accumulated amortization 
 
Opening balance 
 
 
 31.91  
 16.09 
Addition during the year 
 
 
 29.34  
 24.92 
Other adjustment/ Reassessment 
 
 
 -    
 0.33 
Deduction during the year 
 
 
 2.89  
 9.43 
Closing Balance (B) 
 58.36  
 31.91
Net Block (A-B) 
258.39  
 258.22        
* Refer note 5.3 
A
Lease Assets*
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
 
Opening balance 
147.78  
 85.32 
Addition during the year 
33.74  
 81.18 
Adjustment on account of reassessment /modification/termination 
(4.66) 
 (0.17)
Add: Interest Expenses 
9.83  
 7.25 
Less: Payments 
(34.36) 
 (25.80)
Closing Balance 
152.32  
 147.78 
Current 
28.39  
 22.45 
Non current  
123.93  
 125.33 
* Refer note 21 
B 
Movement in Lease liability with Current/Non current break up:- 
( ` in Crores)
Lease liabilities* 
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 50  LEASES  (Continued .....)
Particulars
Particulars
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
50.1.5 The total Cash outflow for ROU assets is ` 24.53 Crores ( Previous year ` 18.55 Crores) for the year ended 31st March, 
2023 (excluding interest).
50.1.6  Contractual maturity analysis of undiscounted lease liabilities is given below: 
 
Maturity Analysis of lease liabilities (undiscounted): 
 (  in Crores)
`
184
Particulars 
As at 31st March 2023 As at 31st March 2022
Less than one year 
 36.10  
 29.96 
One to two years 
  35.09  
 30.07 
two to five years 
 66.80  
 74.73 
More than five years 
 83.73  
 84.72 
Total 
 221.72  
 219.48 
1 
Promoters 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
2 
Directors 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
3 
KMPs 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
4 
Related Parties 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Total 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -
1 
Promoters 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
2 
Directors 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
3 
KMPs 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
4 
Related Parties 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Total 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -
50.2 
The Company as a lessor
 
The Company accounted for its leases in accordance with Ind AS 116.
Note 51  ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION DISCLOSURES
Note 51.1 Loans and advances granted to specified person:
(A)  Loans / Advance in the nature of loan - Repayable on Demand: 
 
 
 
          (  in Crores) 
`
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(B) Loans / Advance in the nature of loan - without specifying any terms or period of repayment: 
         (  in Crores)
`
Sr. 
No
Sr. 
No
Type of Borrowers
Type of Borrowers
As on 31st March 2023
As on 31st March 2023
As on 31st March 2022
As on 31st March 2022
% of Total Loan and 
Advance in the 
Nature of Loan
% of Total Loan and 
Advance in the 
Nature of Loan
Amount Outstanding - 
Gross Carrying 
Amount
Amount Outstanding - 
Gross Carrying 
Amount
Amount Outstanding - 
Gross Carrying 
Amount
Amount Outstanding - 
Gross Carrying 
Amount
% of Total Loan and 
Advance in the 
Nature of Loan
% of Total Loan and 
Advance in the 
Nature of Loan
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
50.1.4 Amounts recognized in profit or loss 
 (` in Crores)
Particulars 
For the year ended  For the year ended
 
 
31st March 2023 31st March 2022
Lease charges-Others* (Refer Note 38) 
 40.85  
 33.80 
Interest expenses (Refer Note 36) 
 9.83  
 7.25 
Depreciation charge for right-of-use assets (Refer Note 37) 
29.34  
 24.92
*Leases charges-Others includes rental charges of all assets that have lease period of 12 month or less, remaining lease 
period of 12 months or less as on transition date, rental charges of low value assets, variable lease payments and component 
of taxes of ROU lease charges. 
LCV/HCV Hiring, Operating and Maintenance Charges includes lease component viz. rental charges of LCV/HCV lease assets 
that have lease period of 12 month or less.
Note 50  LEASES  (Continued .....)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
Note 51.3 Willful Defaulter
 
The company is not declared as willful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
Note 51.4 Utilisation of borrowed funds
 
The company has used the borrowings from banks for the specific purpose for which it was taken. The company has not 
taken any borrowings from financial institution.
Note 51.5 Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies (ROC)
 
The company has registered charge and satisfaction with ROC within statutory time period.
Note 51.6 Details of Benami Property held
 
The company does not hold any benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) 
and rules made thereunder, hence no proceedings initiated or pending against the company under the said Act and Rules.
Note 51.7 Utilisation of borrowed funds, share premium and other funds
 
The Company has not given any advance or loan or invested funds from borrowed funds or share premium or any other 
sources with the understanding that intermediary would directly or indirectly lend or invest in other person or equity 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the company as ultimate beneficiaries or provide any guarantee or 
security or the like to on behalf of ultimate beneficiaries.  
 
The Company has not received any fund from any person or entity with the understanding that the Company would 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other person or entity identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
funding party (ultimate beneficiary) or provided any guarantee or security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiary.
Note 51.8 Compliance with number of layers of companies
 
As the company is a Government Company, in terms of section 2(45) of the Companies Act, compliance with number of 
layers of the companies as per section 2(87) of the Companies Act read with Companies (Restriction on number of 
Layers) Rules 2017, is not applicable.
Note 52 ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES
Note 52.1 Details of Crypto Currency or Virtual Currency
 
The company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
Note 52.2 Undisclosed Income
 
There is no transaction, which has not been recorded in books of accounts, that has been surrendered or disclosed as 
income during the year in tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
185
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
As on 31st March 2023:
1 
Investment in securities 
NA 
Nil 
NA
2 
Receivables 
NA 
Nil 
NA
3 
Payables 
NA 
Nil 
NA
4 
Shares held by struck off Company 
NA 
Nil 
NA
5 
Other outstanding balances (to be specified) 
NA 
Nil 
NA
As on 31st March 2022:
1 
Investment in securities 
NA 
Nil 
NA
2 
Receivables 
NA 
Nil 
NA
3 
Payables 
NA 
Nil 
NA
4 
Shares held by struck off Company 
NA 
Nil 
NA
5 
Other outstanding balances (to be specified) 
NA 
Nil 
NA
Note 51.2 Relationship with struck off companies: 
 
 
 
Based on the information available with the company, the required disclosures are given below:
Sr. 
No
Name of struck of companies
Relationship with struck 
off company if any
Balance 
Outstanding
Nature of 
transaction
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
186
-
-
Increase in fair valuation of 
investments.
Increase in working capital 
while annual turnover is at par 
with last year.
-
-
Increase in trade payables 
while total purchase cost is at 
par with last year.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Sr. 
No
1
2
3
Particulars
Current Ratio 
(times)
Debt-Equity 
Ratio (times)
Debt Service 
Coverage Ratio  
(times)
Reason for significant 
variance(25% or more)
-
Debt Equity ratio has improved 
due to prepayments/ 
repayment of Borrowings 
during the year and increase in 
total equity due to current year 
profits.There is no outstanding 
debt as on 31st March 2023.
Debt Service Coverage Ratio 
has improved due to 
prepayments/ repayment of 
Borrowings during the year. 
There is no outstanding debt 
as on 31st March 2023.
 -   
Variance
%
FY 
2021-22
FY 
2022-23
 
1.40 
1.17 
20%
 
 - 
0.09 
-100%
 
- 
13.48  
-100%
 
 9% 
8% 
15%
 
24% 
26% 
-5%
 
 29% 
28% 
3%
 
 30% 
12% 
144%
  781.48 
924.77 
-15%
 
16.29 
18.66 
-13%
 32.88 
44.16 
-26%
 30.35 
82.00 
-63%
Denominator
Current Liabilities 
(Excl. Customer 
deposits)
Shareholder’s 
Equity
Interest on 
borrowings + 
Principal 
Repayments 
(routine 
installments)
Numerator
Current Assets
Debt consists of 
borrowings
Earning for Debt 
Service = Net 
Profit after taxes 
+ Non-cash 
expenses/adjust
ment + Interest -
Lease payments
Note 53 
RATIO ANALYSIS
5
6
7
11
8
9
10
Return on Equity 
Ratio (%)
Return on Capital 
employed (%)
Return on 
investment (%)- 
unquoted
Net capital 
turnover ratio
Inventory 
turnover ratio
Trade Receivables 
turnover ratio
Trade payables 
turnover ratio
Average 
Shareholder’s 
Equity
Avg. Capital 
Employed=Tangible 
Net Worth + Total 
Debt + Deferred 
Tax Liability
Average 
investment
Working Capital
Average Inventory 
(Natural Gas)
Average Trade 
Receivable
Average Trade 
Payables (Gas 
Purchase+ 
Transmission)
Net Profits after 
taxes – reference 
Dividend (if any)
Profit before tax 
+ Interest on 
borrowings
Income generated 
from investments
Revenue from 
operations
Cost of goods 
sold or sales
Net Credit Sales
Net Credit 
Purchases (Gas 
purchase + 
Transmission)
4
Net profit 
ratio (%)
Revenue from 
operations
Net Profit after 
tax
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
187
-
-
-
-
While average inventory levels 
have remained in line with last 
year, higher cost of gas has led 
to increased turnover ratio.
Increase in trade receivables is 
lower than increase in turnover.
Increase in trade payables is 
lower than increase in gas 
purchase cost.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Sr. 
No
1
2
3
Particulars
Current Ratio 
(times)
Debt-Equity Ratio  
(times)
Debt Service 
Coverage Ratio  
(times)
Reason for significant 
variance (25% or more)
-
Debt Equity ratio has improved 
due to prepayments/ 
repayment of Borrowings 
during the year and increase in 
total equity due to current year 
profits.
Debt Equity ratio has improved 
due to repayments / 
repayment of Borrowings 
during the year and reduction 
in interest rates.
While Net profit is at par with 
last year, it has reduced in 
%age terms, due to increase in 
turnover.
Variance
%
FY 
2020-21
FY 
2021-22
 
1.17  
 1.08  
9%
 
0.09 
0.20 
-58%
 
13.48  
 8.00  
69%
 
8% 
13% 
-39%
 
26% 
33% 
-22%
 
28% 
31% 
-9%
 
12% 
14% 
-9%
 924.77   591.67  
56%
 
18.66  
 13.95  
34%
 
44.16  
 25.33  
74%
 82.00   103.33  
-21%
Denominator
Current Liabilities 
(Excl. Customer 
deposits)
Shareholder’s 
Equity
Interest on 
borrowings + 
Principal 
Repayments 
(routine 
installments)
Numerator
Current Assets
Debt consists of 
borrowings
Earning for Debt 
Service = Net 
Profit after taxes 
+ Non-cash 
expenses/adjust
ment + Interest -
Lease payments
Note 53 
RATIO ANALYSIS  (Continued .....)
Ratio Analysis for previous financial year 2021-22
5
6
7
11
8
9
10
Return on Equity 
Ratio (%)
Return on Capital 
employed (%)
Return on 
investment (%)- 
unquoted
Net capital 
turnover ratio
Inventory 
turnover ratio
Trade Receivables 
turnover ratio
Trade payables 
turnover ratio
Average 
Shareholder’s 
Equity
Avg. Capital 
Employed=Tangible 
Net Worth + Total 
Debt + Deferred 
Tax Liability
Average 
investment
Working Capital
Average Inventory 
(Natural Gas)
Average Trade 
Receivable
Average Trade 
Payables (Gas 
Purchase+ 
Transmission)
Net Profits after 
taxes – reference 
Dividend (if any)
Profit before tax 
+ Interest on 
borrowings
Income generated 
from investments
Revenue from 
operations
Cost of goods 
sold or sales
Net Credit Sales
Net Credit 
Purchases (Gas 
purchase + 
Transmission)
4
Net profit ratio 
(%)
Revenue from 
operations
Net Profit after 
tax
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
188
Sr. 
No
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
Particulars
Gross amount required to be spent by the company during the 
year. 
 
Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year  
Amount of expenditure incurred on: 
 
(i) Construction/acquisition of any asset 
 
(ii) On purposes other than (i) above 
 
The amount of shortfall at the end of the year out of the 
amount required to be spent by the Company during the 
year 
 
Amount transferred to unspent CSR Account related to 
ongoing projects 
 
The total of previous years’ shortfall amounts 
 
The reason for above shortfalls (if any) 
 
 
Details of related party transactions in relation to CSR 
expenditure 
 
Nature of CSR activities undertaken by the Company
 
Provision for CSR Expenses: 
 
 
Opening Balance 
 
 
Add: Provision created during the period 
 
 
Less: Provision utilised during the period 
 
Closing Balance 
 
Prepaid CSR Expenses (excess spent): 
 
 
Opening Balance 
 
 
Add: Excess amount spent during the year 
 
 
Less: Set off during the year 
 
Closing Balance (Available for set off in succeeding years)
Total amount recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss 
FY 2021-22
 
 23.54 
 
 
 23.54 
 
 -   
 
 19.14 
 
 4.40 
 
 
 4.40 
 
 
 -   
Pertains to an ongoing 
project of Radio Diagnostic 
Services
 -   
Preventive Health care / 
Disaster  management, 
Health Care, Environment, 
Community Development, 
Eradication of Hunger / 
Malnutrition
 
 -   
 
 4.40 
 
 -   
 
 4.40 
 
 
 -   
 
 -   
 
 -   
 
 -   
 
23.54 
FY 2022-23
 
 31.03 
 
 
 31.03 
 
 
 
-   
 
 19.08 
 
 11.95 
 
 
 11.95 
 
 
 4.40 
Pertains to an ongoing 
project of Radio Diagnostic 
Services, Tertiary Care, 
Research on green 
hygrogen & Biogas
 -   
Preventive Health care / 
Disaster  management, 
Health Care, Environment, 
Community Development, 
Eradication of Hunger / 
Malnutrition, Research on 
green hygrogen & Biogas
 
 4.40 
 
 11.95 
 
 -   
 
 16.35 
 
 
 -   
 
 0.28 
 
 -   
 
 0.28 
 
31.03 
Note 54  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EXPENDITURE
 
As per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, a company needs to spend at least 2% of its average net profit for the 
immediately preceding three financial years on corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities.  A CSR committee has been 
formed by the company as per the Act. CSR expenditure contains the following:
(  in Crores)
`
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
189
Details of expenditure incurred for CSR activities : 
 (` in Crores)
 
Particular of Expenditure during the year 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22
1 
Contribution to Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre, Ahmedabad (IKDRC)  
6.48  
 -   
 
towards One Gujarat One Dialysis Programme (Preventive Healthcare) 
 
2 
Contribution to U. N. Mehta Institute of Cardiology & Research Centre (UNMICRC)  
 5.89  
 -   
 
towards Robotic Surgery Systems for Cardio Thoracic and Vascular Surgery 
 
(Preventive Healthcare) 
3 
Providing gas(in kind) to Crematoriums (Environment / Community Development) 
 6.17  
 6.05 
4 
Contribution to Gujarat CSR Authority & IKDRC towards Project on developing a  
 0.28  
 -   
 
computer navigation system for assisting total knee joint arthroplasty 
 
(Research & Development) 
5 
Contribution to U. N. Mehta Institute of Cardiology & Research Centre (UNMICRC)  
 0.11  
 -   
 
towards project on Papeless ICU setup (Preventive Healthcare) 
6 
Contribution to Zeal education trust to support "Learning by doing" project at schools in  
0.12  
 -   
 
rural arears (Education) 
 
7 
Providing gas(in kind) towards Nondhara no aadhar project  
 0.01  
 0.01 
 
(Eradication of Hunger / Malnutrition) 
8 
Contribution to support Mobile Health screening van 
 0.02  
 0.08 
 
(Preventive Healthcare) 
9 
Contribution to Gujarat University Consultancy Foundation to support Covid care hospital  
 -    
 10.00 
 
(Preventive Healthcare / Disaster Management) 
10 Contribution to Gujarat CSR Authority to support Oxygen plant  
 -    
 3.00 
 
(Preventive Healthcare / Disaster Management) 
 
Total 
 19.08 
 19.14 
Sr. 
No
Note 55 SEGMENT REPORTING
 
The Company primarily operates in the segment of Natural Gas Business. Natural gas business involves distribution of gas 
from sources of supply to centres of demand and to the end customers. The Managing Director of the Company allocate 
resources and assess the performance of the Company, thus are the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The CODM 
monitors the operating results of the business as a one, hence no separate segment needs to be disclosed. 
 
 
Information about products and service:
 
The Company is in a single line of business of Sale of Natural Gas.
 
Information about geographical areas:
 
 
1. 
The Company does not have geographical distribution of revenue outside India and hence segmentwise disclosure is 
not applicable to the Company.
 
 
2. 
None of the Company's assets are located outside India hence segmentwise disclosure is not applicable to the 
Company.     
 
Information about major customers:
 
None of the customer account for more than 10% of the total revenue of the Company.
Note 56 ACCOUNTING FOR BUSINESS COMBINATION TRANSACTIONS
 
BUSINESS TRANSFER AGREEMENT FOR GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS OF AMRITSAR AND BHATINDA (PUNJAB)
 
Pursuant to the approval by the Board of Directors on 1st June 2021, the Company had executed Business Transfer 
Agreement (BTA) on 26th October 2021 to transfer / purchase of City Gas Distribution (CGD) Business of Amritsar and 
Bhatinda Geographical Areas  from Gujarat State Petronet Limited (GSPL, a holding company) to Gujarat Gas Limited (GGL, 
the Company) for cash consideration of ` 153.86 Crores (` 164.58 Crore Business valuation determined based on an 
independent valuation less ` 10.72 Crore working capital adjustment) and the Company has completed the above transfer 
of business as per BTA with effect from 1st November 2021.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 54  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EXPENDITURE  (Continued .....)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
190
Note 56.1 Accounting treatment of the Business transfer arrangement
 
Accordingly in the financial year 2021 - 22, Business combination transaction between the common control entities, GSPL 
(Holding Company) and GGL (Subsidiary Company) had been recorded in the books of the Company in accordance with 
Appendix C - ‘Business combinations of entities under common control’ of Ind AS 103 – ‘Business Combinations’ using the 
pooling of interests method which involves the following:-  
 
 
 
 
1. 
In the previous financial year, the financial information in the financial statements in respect of prior periods was 
restated as if the business combination had occurred from the beginning of the preceding period in the financial 
statements, irrespective of the actual date of the combination. Accordingly, business combinations was accounted 
with effect from 1st April, 2020. Accordingly figures for the year ended March 31 2021 were reinstated after giving 
effect to the Business transfer arrangement. The obligation to pay consideration in cash was recognised as a liability in 
the comparative financial year.  
 
 
 
 
 
2.  
The Company had recorded the asset, liabilities and accumulated losses of the City Gas Distribution (CGD) Business 
of GSPL pursuant to this arrangement at the respective book values appearing in the books of GSPL. 
 
 
3.  
No adjustments were made to reflect fair values and only adjustments are recorded to harmonise accounting policies 
and intercompany eliminations. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  
The difference between aggregated book value of net assets acquired, accumulated loss of the CGD business and 
deferred tax recognised on acquisition and consideration paid by the Company to GSPL was transferred to negative 
capital reserve.  Detailed working of the same is given hereunder:
Summary of purchase consideration and assets taken over accounted in the books is given:-  
                 (  in Crores)
`
Note 56.2 In the current financial year, disclosures related to the transation affecting previous financial year 2021 - 22 
have been given. Accordingly, the following figures of revenue and directly attributable expenses of Amritsar & Bhatinda 
GA are disclosed hereunder:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          (  in Crores)
`
Sr.no. Particulars 
Amount
1 
Purchase consideration Valuation of Assets (determined based on an independent valuation) 
  164.58 
2 
Net working capital adjustments 
 (10.72)
3 
Net Purchase consideration after adjusting net working capital adjustments 
 153.86 
4 
Total net assets acquired 
 100.25 
5 
Excess of purchase consideration over net assets transferred Adjusted against below Reserves:- 
 53.61 
 
Retained Earnings (Accumulated Losses) 
 15.84 
 
Capital reserve (Negative) - Gross 
 37.77 
 
Capital reserve (Negative) - Net off Deferred tax assets of ` 13.79 Crores 
 23.98
 
 
 
For the period from 
Sr.no. Particulars 
1st April 2021 to
 
 
 
31st October 2021
  1 
Revenue
  (a) 
Revenue from Operations 
26.80
  (b) 
Other Income (Income Elimination) 
(3.22)
 
Total Income 
23.58
  2 
Expenses
  (a) 
Cost of materials consumed 
17.57
  (b) 
Changes in inventories  
(0.26)
  (c) 
Finance costs 
0.27
  (d) 
Depreciation and Amortization Expenses 
2.08
  (e) 
Excise duty expense 
5.05
  (f) 
Other expenses 
9.58
 
Total Expenses 
34.29
  3 
Profit/(Loss) Before Tax 
 (10.71)
  4 
Tax expense :
 
Current Tax 
 (2.11)
 
Deferred Tax 
 (2.77)
 
Total Tax expenses 
 (4.88)
  5 
Net Profit/(Loss) after tax 
 (5.83)
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
191
Note 57 RECLASSIFICATION OF COMPARATIVE FIGURES 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to the comparative period's financial statements to: 
 
 
 
- enhance comparability and ensure consistency with the current year’s financial statements; and
 
- ensure compliance with the Guidance Note on Division II - Ind AS Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013." 
 
 
The Company believes that such presentation is more relevant for understanding of the Company’s performance. 
However, this does not have any impact on the profit, equity and cash flow statement for the comparative period.
Note 58 EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
 
The Company evaluates events and transactions that occur subsequent to the balance sheet date but prior to approval of 
the financial statements to determine the necessity for recognition and/or reporting of any of these events and 
transactions in the financial statements. As on date of approval of these financial statements, there are no subsequent 
events to be recognized or reported that are not already disclosed.
Note 59 PREVIOUS YEAR FIGURES
 
Previous period figures have been re-grouped / re-classified wherever necessary, to conform to current period’s 
presentation.
The Accompanying Notes (1-59) are an integral part of the financial Statements.
As per our report attached 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of Gujarat Gas Limited
For Manubhai & Shah LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
 
ICAI Firm Reg. No. – 106041W/W100136 
Raj Kumar, IAS   
Milind Torawane, IAS  
 Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)
 
 
 
Chairman  
Managing Director   
 Director  
K.B. Solanki 
DIN - 00294527 
DIN - 03632394  
 DIN- 00023872   
Partner  
 
 
 
M. No. : 110299 
  
Nitesh Bhandari         
  Sandeep Dave
 
 
 
  
Chief Financial Officer   
 Company Secretary 
Place  
:  Gandhinagar 
 
 
 Place :  Gandhinagar 
Date  
:  10th May, 2023 
 
 
 Date :  10th May, 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
192
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
REPORT OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA
COMMENTS OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA UNDER SECTION 143(6)(b) READ WITH SECTION 
129(4) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF GUJARAT GAS LIMITED FOR 
THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023
The preparation of consolidated financial statements of Gujarat Gas Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023 in accordance with 
the financial reporting framework prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013(Act) is the responsibility of the management of the 
company. The statutory auditors appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India under section 139(5) read with section 
129(4) of the Act are responsible for expressing opinion on the financial statements under section 143 read with section 129(4) of 
the Act based on independent audit in accordance with the standards on auditing prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act. This is 
stated to have been done by them vide their Audit Report dated 10 May 2023.
I, on behalf of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, have conducted a supplementary audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of Gujarat Gas Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023 under section 143(6)(a) read with section 129(4) of the Act. 
We conducted a supplementary audit of the financial statements of Gujarat Gas Limited and Guj Info Petro Limited for the year ended 
on that date. Further, Section 139(5) and 143(6)(b) of the Act are not applicable to Gujarat Gas Limited Employees Welfare Stock 
Option Trust being private entities, neither for appointment of their Statutory Auditor nor for conduct of supplementary audit. 
Accordingly, Comptroller and Auditor General of India has neither appointed the Statutory Auditors nor conducted the 
supplementary audit of this Company. This supplementary audit has been carried out independently without access to the working 
papers of the statutory auditors and is limited primarily to inquiries of the statutory auditors and company personnel and a selective 
examination of some of the accounting records.
On the basis of my supplementary audit nothing significant has come to my knowledge which would give rise to any comment upon 
or supplement to Statutory Auditors' report under Section 143(6)(b) of the Act.
For and on behalf of the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India
(Vijay N. Kothari)
Accountant General (Audit-II), Gujarat
Place: Ahmedabad
Date: 10-07-2023
193
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT
To 
The Members of Gujarat Gas Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Gujarat Gas Limited (“the Holding Company”) and its 
controlled trust (Holding Company and its controlled trust collectively referred to as “the Group”), and its associate company which 
comprise the consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2023, and the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Income), the consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the 
year ended on that date, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of the significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements give the information required by the Companies  Act, 2013  (hereinafter referred to as “the  Act”) in  the  manner so 
required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under  section 133 of the Act 
read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended, (hereinafter referred to as “Ind AS”) and other 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, of their consolidated state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2023, of the 
consolidated profit and total comprehensive income, consolidated changes in equity and its consolidated cash flows for the year 
ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (hereinafter referred 
to as “SAs”) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the 
Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (hereinafter referred to as 
“ICAI”) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Key Audit Matter s
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have 
determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
194
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Sr. No.  Key Audit Matter 
1  
Revenue recognition 
 
 
The Holding Company is in the business of 
distribution of natural gas.  The Holding 
Company has major types of customers such as 
industrial, oil marketing companies, commercial, 
non-commercial, domestic and CNG.   
 
 
Revenue from sale of natural gas is considered 
as key audit matter as there is a risk of accuracy 
of recognition and measurement of gas sales in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements 
considering following aspects:
 
 
- Different pricing structure for different types 
of customers and frequency of price change
 
 
-  Voluminous number of customers
 
 
-  Capturing Gas Consumption data in billing
 
 
- Estimating unbilled revenue at the year-end
 
 
- Extensive use of SAP and other IT systems 
for managing the billing operation
2  
Contingent Liabilities
 
 
Contingent Liabilities are for ongoing litigations 
and claims with various authorities and third 
parties. These relate to direct tax, indirect tax, 
claims and legal proceedings.
 
 
Contingent liabilities are considered as key audit 
matters as the amount involved is significant 
and it also involves significant management 
judgement to determine possible outcome and 
future cash outflows of these disputes. 
Auditor’s Response 
Principal audit procedure :
Our approach was a combination of test of internal controls, analytical 
and substantive procedures which included the following:
- 
Evaluated the design of internal control
- 
For evaluation of operative effectiveness of internal control:
 
• 
Verified samples of gas sales invoices with relevant 
agreements executed with the customers, accuracy of pricing, 
consumption quantity, tax amount of invoices of major types 
of customers.
 
• 
Visited site to understand actual operations
- 
Performed analytical procedures to verify number of bills 
generated during the year for each major type of customers as per 
their respective billing cycle 
- 
On sample basis, verified:
 
• 
Up-dation of Daily Contracted Quantity of gas of Industrial 
customers in the billing system.
 
• 
Up-dation of prices of gas for all major types of customers in 
the billing system.
 
• 
Sales invoices 
- 
Verified subsequent realisation of invoices generated for the 
month of March 2023. 
- 
Evaluated the appropriateness of accounting policies, related 
disclosure made and overall presentation in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in terms of Ind AS 115.
Principal audit procedure :
- 
Obtained details of disputed claims as on March 31, 2023, from 
the management. 
- 
Discussed with the management about the significant judgment 
considered in determining possible outcome and future cash 
outflows of these disputes. 
- 
Verified relevant documents related to disputes.
- 
Evaluated the appropriateness of accounting policies, related 
disclosure made and overall presentation in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in terms of Ind AS 37.
195
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT
196
Information Other than the Consolidated Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Management Discussion and Analysis, Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s 
Report, Business Responsibility Report, Corporate Governance and Shareholder’s Information, but does not include the consolidated 
financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information consider 
whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, or our knowledge obtained 
during the course of our audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required 
to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the Final Annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate 
the matter to those charged with governance and take necessary actions as per applicable laws and regulations.
Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Board of  Directors is responsible for the matters stated in  section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the 
preparation of these consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, 
consolidated financial performance, consolidated total comprehensive income, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated 
cash flows  of the  Group  in  accordance with the Ind AS and other accounting principles generally  accepted  in  India.  The respective 
Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the  Act for safeguarding  the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated 
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error which have 
been used for the purpose of the preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as 
aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are 
responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern 
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or 
has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting of 
the Group.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated 
financial statements.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the 
audit. We also:
 
- 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control.
 
- 
Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on 
whether the Holding Company has adequate internal financial controls system in place and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls.
 
- 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
 
- 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on 
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
 
- 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, 
and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation.
 
- 
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities within the Group to express 
an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of 
the audit of the financial statements of such entity included in the consolidated financial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors. For the other entity included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by 
other auditor, such other auditor remains responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit carried 
out by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during 
our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear 
on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in 
the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these 
matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
197
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Other Matter
We did not audit the financial statements of controlled trust; whose financial statements reflect total assets of Rs. 0.01 crore as at 
March 31, 2023, total revenues of Rs. 0.06 crore and net cash outflow of Rs. 0.19 crore for the year ended on that date, as considered 
in the consolidated financial statements. The Consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit (including 
other comprehensive income) of Rs. 2.70 crore for the year ended March 31, 2023 as considered in the consolidated financial 
statements, in respect of associate, whose financial statements have not been audited by us. These financial statements have been 
audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial 
statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of the controlled trust and our report in terms of 
sub-sections (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid controlled trust and associate, is based solely on the 
report of the other auditor.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is not 
modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the report of the other auditors.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1. 
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit we report that:
 
a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
 
b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books.
 
c)  The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements.
 
d) In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section 133 of the Act.
 
e) As both the Holding Company and its Associate Company are Government Companies, in terms of notification no. G.S.R 
463 (E) dated June 05, 2015, issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the sub-section (2) of section 164 of the Act is not 
applicable.
 
f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Group and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure – A”. Our report expresses an unmodified 
opinion on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Group’s internal financial controls over financial reporting.
 
g) As both the Holding Company and its Associate Company are Government Companies, in terms of notification no. G.S.R 
463 (E) dated June 05, 2015, issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the sub-section (16) of section 197 of the Act is not 
applicable.
 
h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations 
given to us:
 
 
i. The Group has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its consolidated financial 
statements – Refer Note 43 to the consolidated financial statements.
 
 
ii. The Group did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses.
 
 
iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Group.
198
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT
  
iv. (a) The Managements of the Holding Company has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds 
(which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from 
borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Holding Company to or in any other 
person or entity, including foreign entity (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Holding Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
  
 
(b) The Managements of the Holding Company has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds 
(which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Holding Company from any 
person or entity, including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the Holding Company shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
  
 
(c) Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances 
performed by us on the Holding Company nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as provided under (a) and (b) above, contain any material 
misstatement.
  
v. (a) The final dividend proposed in the previous year, declared and paid by the Holding Company during the year is in 
accordance with Section 123 of the Act, as applicable. 
  
 
(b) The Board of Directors of the Holding Company have proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to the 
approval of the members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The amount of dividend proposed is in accordance 
with section 123 of the Act, as applicable.
 
 
vi. Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 for maintaining books of account using accounting 
software which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility is applicable to the Company with effect from April 
1, 2023, and accordingly, reporting under Rule 11(g) of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 is not applicable for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2023.
2. 
With respect to the matters specified in paragraphs 3(xxi) and 4 of the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (the 
“Order”/ “CARO”) issued by the Central Government in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, to be included in the Auditor’s 
report, according to the information and explanations given to us, and based on the CARO report issued by other auditor of 
associate included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company, to which reporting under CARO is applicable, we 
report that there are no qualifications or adverse remarks in this CARO report.
3. 
In terms of section 143(5) of the Act, we give our report in “Annexure – B” by taking into consideration the information, 
explanations and written representations received from the management on the matters specified in the directions and sub 
directions issued under the aforesaid section by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For, Manubhai & Shah LLP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chartered Accountants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ICAI Firm Registration No. 106041W/W100136
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
K. B. Solanki
Place: Gandhinagar 
 
 
 
  
 
 Partner
Date:  May 10, 2023 
 
 
                     
 
 Membership No. 110299
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
UDIN: 23110299BGYAQJ8370
199
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT
ANNEXURE – A TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 1 (f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even 
date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act 
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended March 31, 2023, 
we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of Gujarat Gas Limited 
(“the Holding Company”) and its associate which is company incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company and its associate, which is company incorporated in India, are responsible 
for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by 
the these companies considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI’). These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Holding Company’s internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statement based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by ICAI and the Standards on Auditing prescribed under section 
143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require 
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements was established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and 
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Holding Company’s internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
A company’s internal financial control with reference to consolidated financial statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial control with reference to consolidated 
financial statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of 
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
200
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to consolidated financial statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not 
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control over financial reporting may become inadequate because of 
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion 
In our opinion, the Holding Company and its associate, which is company incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, an 
adequate internal financial controls system with reference to consolidated financial statements and such internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements were operating effectively as at March 31, 2023, based on the internal control 
over financial reporting criteria established by these Companies considering the essential components of internal control stated in 
the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the ICAI.
201
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For, Manubhai & Shah LLP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chartered Accountants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ICAI Firm Registration No. 106041W/W100136
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
K. B. Solanki
Place: Gandhinagar 
 
 
 
  
 
 Partner
Date:  May 10, 2023 
 
 
                     
 
 Membership No. 110299
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
UDIN: 23110299BGYAQJ8370
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT
ANNEXURE – B TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 3 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Based on the audit procedures performed and taking into consideration the information, explanations and written representations 
given to us by the management in the normal course of audit, we report to the best of our knowledge and belief that:
202
Sr. 
No.
Impact on 
accounts 
and financial 
statements
Auditor’s response
Directions / Sub-directions issued by 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India
 1 
Whether the company has system in place to process 
all the accounting transactions through IT system? If 
yes, the implications of processing of accounting 
transactions outside IT system on the integrity of the 
accounts along with the financial implications, if any, 
may be stated
 2 
Whether there is any restructuring of an existing loan 
or cases of waiver / write off of debts / loans / interest 
etc. made by a lender to the company due to the 
company’s inability to repay the loan? If yes, the 
financial impact may be stated. Whether such cases 
are properly accounted for? (In case, lender is a 
Government company, then this direction is also 
applicable for statutory auditor of lender company).
 3 
Whether funds (grants/subsidy etc.) received / 
receivable for specific schemes from Central/State 
Government or its agencies were properly accounted 
for/utilized as per its term and conditions? List the 
cases of deviation.
 4 
Whether the Company’s pricing policy absorbs all 
fixed and variable cost of production and the 
overheads allocated at the time of fixation of price?
 5 
Whether the Company recovers commission for work 
executed on behalf of Government / other 
organizations that is properly recorded in the books of 
accounts?
  
Whether the Company has an efficient system for 
billing and collection of revenue?
The Company has system in place to process all the 
accounting transactions through IT System i.e. SAP. All 
the financial transactions including customer related 
transactions are integrated in SAP system. We have 
not come across any accounting transaction outside 
the SAP system
There are no cases of restructuring of any existing loan 
or any waiver of loan / debt / interest during the year.
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, there are no cases of receipt 
of grants /subsidy from Central / State Government 
or its agencies. 
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has a pricing 
policy and the Company’s pricing policy is considering 
all fixed and variable cost of production / supply of 
natural gas and the overheads allocated at the time of 
fixation of price.
The Company has not undertaken any work or project 
executed on behalf of Government / other 
organizations and recovery of commission for the 
same.
The Company has SAP system in place for billing and 
accounting for collection of revenue. The Company 
has a policy and procedures in place for effective 
monitoring of credit exposure and recovery of dues 
from its customers in respect of its sales activities.
No impact
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
No impact
Not 
Applicable
No impact
  
Sub – directions – Service Sector
  
Directions
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT
203
Sr. 
No.
Impact on 
accounts 
and financial 
statements
Auditor’s response
Directions / Sub-directions issued by 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India
 6 
Whether the Company regularly monitors timely 
receipt of subsidy from Government and it is properly 
recording them in its books?
 7 
Whether interest earned on parking of funds received 
for specific projects from Government was properly 
accounted for?
 8 
Whether the Company has entered into Memorandum 
of understanding with its Administrative Ministry, 
if so, whether the impact thereof has been properly 
dealt with in the financial statements?
 9 
Whether the company has an effective system for 
recovery of dues in respect of its sales activities and 
the dues outstanding and recoveries there against 
have been properly recorded in the books of 
accounts?
 10 Whether the company has effective system for 
physical verification, valuation of stock, treatment of 
non-moving items and accounting the effect of 
shortage / excess noticed during physical 
verification?
 11 The effectiveness of the system followed in recovery 
of dues in respect of sale activities may be examined 
and reported. 
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, there are no cases of receipt 
of subsidy from Government. 
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, there are no cases of receipt 
of fund for any projects from Government.
During the year, the Company has not entered into 
Memorandum of understanding with its 
Administrative Ministry.
The Company has a policy and procedure for effective 
monitoring of credit exposure and recovery of dues 
from its customers in respect of its sales activities.
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanation given to us, the recoveries against the 
dues have been properly recorded in the books of 
accounts.
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the procedures and systems, 
in relation to physical verification of inventories, 
valuation of stock, treatment of non-moving items 
and accounting the effect of shortage / excess 
noticed during physical verification, are reasonable 
and adequate in relation to the size of the Company 
and the nature of its business.
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has a policy 
and procedure for effective monitoring of credit 
exposure and recovery of dues from its customers in 
respect of its sales activities. There are no significant 
instances of its failure observed for the year 
under audit.
Allowance for bad and doubtful debts as on 
March 31, 2023 is Rs 19.74 Crore based on expected 
credit loss model.
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
No impact
Impact taken 
into account 
in the 
financial 
statements
Impact taken 
into account 
in the 
financial 
statements
  
Sub – Directions – Trading 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For, Manubhai & Shah LLP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chartered Accountants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ICAI Firm Registration No. 106041W/W100136
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
K. B. Solanki
Place: Gandhinagar 
 
 
 
  
 
 Partner
Date:  May 10, 2023 
 
 
                     
 
 Membership No. 110299
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
UDIN: 23110299BGYAQJ8370
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31ST MARCH, 2023 
 
 
 
 
(` in Crores)
I. 
ASSETS
1 
Non-Current Assets 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Property, plant and equipment 
 3.1  
 6,601.82  
 5,967.76 
 
(b)  Capital work in progress 
 3.2  
 957.60  
 965.91 
 
(c)  Investment property 
 4  
 1.30  
 1.30 
 
(d)  Intangible assets 
 5.1  
 476.16  
 403.92 
 
(e)  Intangible assets under development 
 5.2  
 25.51  
 26.39 
 
(f) Right-of-use assets 
 5.3  
 258.39  
 258.22 
 
(g) Investment in equity accounted investee 
 6  
 32.37  
 29.67 
 
(h) Financial assets 
 
 
 
 
(i) Investments 
 7  
 30.38  
 22.36 
 
 
(ii) Loans 
 8  
 2.74  
 3.56 
 
 
(iii) Other financial assets 
 9  
 97.92  
 81.27 
 
(i) Other non-current assets 
 10  
 464.05  
 436.94 
 
 
Total Non-Current Assets 
 
 8,948.24  
 8,197.30
2 
Current Assets 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Inventories 
11  
 61.18  
 53.39 
 
(b)  Financial Assets 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
Investments 
 
 -    
 -   
 
 
(ii) Trade receivables 
 12  
 1,021.15  
 930.05 
 
 
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents 
 13  
 674.70  
 19.78 
 
 
(iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above 
 14  
 6.28  
 1.54 
 
 
(v) Loans 
 15  
 3.84  
 2.91 
 
 
(vi) Other financial assets 
 16  
 9.86  
 19.02 
 
(c) Other current assets 
 17  
 202.18  
 363.34 
 
 
Total Current Assets 
 
 1,979.19  
 1,390.03
 
 
TOTAL ASSETS 
 
 10,927.43  
 9,587.33 
II. 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
 
 
 
1 
Equity   
 
 
 
(a)  Equity share capital  
 18  
 137.68  
 137.68 
 
(b)  Other Equity 
 19  
 6,890.27  
 5,492.25 
 
 
Total Equity 
 
 7,027.95  
 5,629.93 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
Non-Current Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Financial Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
Borrowings 
 20  
 -    
 390.97 
 
 
(ii) Lease Liabilities 
 21  
 123.93  
 125.33 
 
(b) Provisions 
 22  
 55.00  
 53.78 
 
(c) Deferred tax liabilities (Net) 
 23  
 846.10  
 807.72 
 
(d) Other non-current liabilities 
 24  
 71.08  
 68.83 
 
 
 Total Non-Current Liabilities  
 
 1,096.11  
 1,446.63  
 
Current Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Financial Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
Borrowings 
 25  
 -    
 90.10 
 
 
(ii) Lease Liabilities 
 21  
 28.39  
 22.45 
 
 
(iii) Trade payables 
 26  
 
 
 
 
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises 
 
 18.50  
 21.36 
 
 
 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises  
 
 697.08  
 425.69 
 
 
 
and small enterprises
 
 
(iv) Other financial liabilities 
 27  
 1,897.86  
 1,841.96 
 
(b) Other current liabilities 
 28  
 134.16  
 80.69 
 
(c) Provisions 
29 
 27.38  
 28.52 
 
(d)  Current Tax Liabilities (Net) 
 30  
 -    
 -   
 
 
 Total Current Liabilities  
 
 2,803.37  
 2,510.77 
 
 
 Total Liabilities  
 
 3,899.48  
 3,957.40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
 
 10,927.43  
 9,587.33 
See accompanying notes to the financial statements (1-61)
As at
Note
No.
Particulars
31st March 2023
As at
31st March 2022
As per our report attached 
For Manubhai & Shah LLP 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of Gujarat Gas Limited
Chartered Accountants 
Raj Kumar, IAS   
Milind Torawane, IAS   
Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)
ICAI Firm Reg. No. - 106041W/W100136 Chairman               
Managing Director 
Director
K.B. Solanki 
DIN - 00294527    
DIN - 03632394 
DIN- 00023872  
Partner  
 
 
 
M. No. : 110299 
  
Nitesh Bhandari 
Sandeep Dave
 
 
 
  
Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary 
Place :  Gandhinagar 
 
 
Place :  Gandhinagar 
Date : 10th May, 2023 
 
 
Date : 10th May, 2023 
204
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2023 
(` in Crores)
 
                      Particulars  
 Note 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
  
 
No 
31 st March 2023 
31 st March 2022
Income 
 
 
I. Revenue from Operations 
31 
 17,306.16  
 16,787.35 
II. Other income 
32 
 101.33  
 90.87 
III. Total Income (I+II) 
 
 17,407.49  
 16,878.22 
IV. Expenses 
 
 
 
Cost of materials consumed / Purchase of stock in trade 
33 
 13,276.19  
 13,444.11 
 
Changes in inventories of natural gas 
34 
 (2.76) 
 (7.24)
 
Employee Benefits Expenses 
35 
 195.58  
 190.88 
 
Finance Costs 
36 
 40.35  
 56.82 
 
Depreciation and Amortization Expenses 
37 
 428.26  
 384.91 
 
Excise Duty 
 
 546.76  
 331.13 
 
Other Expenses 
38 
 898.40  
 752.17 
Total Expenses (IV) 
 
 15,382.78  
 15,152.78 
V.  Profit Before Exceptional Items and Tax(III-IV) 
 
 2,024.71  
 1,725.44 
VI.  Exceptional Items 
39 
 -    
 11.90 
VII. Profit Before Tax (V-VI) 
 
 2,024.71  
 1,713.54 
 
Add: Share of net profit of equity accounted investee 
 
 2.86  
 1.62 
 
Profit/(Loss) Before Tax 
 
 2,027.57  
 1,715.16 
VIII.  Tax expense: 
40 
 
 
Current Tax 
 
 463.39  
 416.05 
 
Deferred Tax 
 
 35.80  
 11.74 
Total Tax Expense (VIII) 
 
 499.19  
 427.79 
IX.Profit for the period(VII-VIII) 
 
 1,528.38  
 1,287.37 
 
  
X.  Other comprehensive income 
41 
 
 
A.  (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 
 
 11.09  
 3.38 
 
 (ii) Income tax related to items that will not be reclassified to 
 
 (2.57) 
 (0.69)
 
  profit or loss 
 
B.  Share of Other comprehensive income of equity accounted 
 
 (0.16) 
 (0.01)
 
  investee
Total other comprehensive income (X)  
 
 8.36  
 2.68 
 
  
XI. Total comprehensive income for the period(IX+X) 
 
 1,536.74  
 1,290.05 
 
  
Earnings per equity share of Face Value of ` 2 each 
42 
 
 
Basic  
  
22.20  
 18.70 
 
Diluted 
 
 22.20  
 18.70 
See accompanying notes to the financial statements (1-61)
As per our report attached 
For Manubhai & Shah LLP 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of Gujarat Gas Limited  
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Reg. No. – 106041W/W100136 
 
K.B. Solanki 
Raj Kumar, IAS   
Milind Torawane, IAS  
 Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)
Partner  
Chairman               
Managing Director   
 Director
M. No. : 110299 
DIN - 00294527     
DIN - 03632394   
 DIN- 00023872  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nitesh Bhandari         
 Sandeep Dave
 
 
 
  
Chief Financial Officer   
 Company Secretary 
Place :  Gandhinagar 
 
 
 Place :  Gandhinagar 
Date : 10th May, 2023 
 
 
 Date : 10th May, 2023
205
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(` in Crores)
 
                          Particulars  
 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
 
 
 
 
31st March 2023  31st March 2022
A.  CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
 
 
Net Profit Before Tax 
  
2,024.71  
 1,713.54 
 
Adjustments for: 
 
 
 
Depreciation and Amortization Expenses 
  
428.26  
 384.91 
 
 
Loss on sale/disposal of Property, plant and equipment   
3.26  
 1.49 
 
 
Profit on sale as scrap and diminution in  Capital Inventory  
(0.74) 
 (1.03)
 
 
Loss on sale as scrap and diminution in  Capital Inventory  
0.88  
 2.74 
 
 
Profit on Lease termination / modification / reassessment (net) 
 (0.44) 
 -   
 
 
Provision for Doubtful Trade Receivables / Advances / Deposits 
 6.12  
 3.71 
 
 
Finance Costs 
 
 40.35  
 56.82 
 
 
Provision/liability no longer required written back 
  
(16.91) 
 (20.78)
 
 
Dividend Income 
 
 (0.00) 
(0.00) 
 
 
Interest Income 
  
(51.94) 
 (33.80)
 
Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes 
  
2,433.55  
 2,107.60 
 
Adjustments for changes in Working Capital 
 
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Trade Receivables 
 
 (97.19) 
 (146.79)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Other - Non Current Assets 
  
(48.34) 
 (50.36)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Other financial assets-Non-current  
(13.30) 
 (3.26)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Loans and Advances-Current  
 (0.93) 
 (1.62)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Other Current Assets 
 
 161.16  
 (178.07)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Other financial assets-Current  
 6.94  
 (11.28)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Inventories 
  
(7.79) 
 (0.91)
 
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Loan and advances-Non current  
0.82  
 (1.39)
 
 
Changes in Assets 
  
1.37  
 (393.68)
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in Trade Payables 
  
269.04  
 1.42 
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in Other financial liabilities-Current  
60.26  
 342.11 
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in Other current liabilities 
  
58.95  
 23.60 
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in Other Non current Liabilities 
  
2.25  
 5.89 
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in Short-term provisions 
 
 9.57  
 9.14 
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in Long-term provisions 
 
 1.32  
 2.01 
 
 
Changes in Liabilities 
 
 401.39  
 384.17  
 
Cash Generated from Operations 
 
 2,836.31  
 2,098.09  
 
 
Income tax refund 
  
23.32  
 1.33 
 
 
Income tax paid 
 
 (484.14) 
 (437.68)
 
Net Cash from/(used in) Operating Activities 
 
 2,375.49  
 1,661.74  
B.  CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
 
 
 
Payments for Property, plant and equipments/Intangible assets including 
(1,086.73) 
 (1,366.30)
 
 
Capital work in progress and capital advances. 
  
 
 
Other Bank balances in Earmark funds 
  
(4.74) 
 39.79 
 
 
Investment in Fixed Deposits with bank / financial institutions (net) 
 2.13  
 (0.05)
 
 
Interest received 
 
 50.01  
 33.00 
 
 
Proceeds from sale of Property, plant and equipments  
 0.28  
 0.03 
 
 
Dividend received 
 
0.00 
0.00
 
Net Cash from/(used in) Investing Activities 
 
 (1,039.05) 
 (1,293.53)
C.  CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
 
 
 
Payments of lease liabilities 
  
(24.53) 
 (18.55)
 
 
Proceeds /(Repayment) of Long-term borrowings (Net) [Refer footnote (iv)]  
 (477.85) 
 (419.28)
 
 
Repayment of Short-term borrowings  
 
 -    
 -   
 
 
Interest Paid (including interest on lease liability) 
 
 (38.14) 
 (53.14)
 
 
Dividend Paid (including tax thereon) 
 
 (137.85) 
 (137.47)
 
Net Cash from/(used in) Financing Activities 
 
 (678.37) 
 (628.44)
 
NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (A+B+C)  
658.07  
 (260.23)
 
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the year  
16.63  
 276.86 
 
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of  the  year 
 
 674.70  
 16.63 
Details of Closing Cash and Cash Equivalents and reconciliation with 
Balance sheet: 
 
(A) Cash and Cash Equivalents ( Refer note 13) 
 
 
Cash in hand 
 
 1.42   
1.61 
 
Balances with Banks 
 
 48.52  
 18.17 
 
Balances in Fixed / Liquid Deposits 
 
 624.76  
 -   
(B) Balances in Bank Overdraft / Cash Credit (Refer note 25)  
-    
 (3.15)
 
Total (A+B)  
 
674.70  
 16.63
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2023  
206
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Statement of Cash Flows : 
 
(i)  The above Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared under the “Indirect Method” as set out in the Indian Accounting Standard 
IND AS - 7 on Statement of Cash Flows. 
 
(ii)  Purchase of Property, plant and equipments and other Intangible assets are stated inclusive of movements of capital work in 
progress, assets under development and capital advances. 
 
(iii)  Interest received is classified as investing cash flows and considered and presented as ‘cash flows from investing activities’ to 
the extent, it represents time value of money. 
 
(iv)  Disclosure of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including changes arising from cash flows and  non cash 
changes: 
Cash flown from Proceeds /(Repayment) of Long-term   
 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
borrowings (Net): 
 
31st March 2023 
 31st March 2022
Proceeds from Long-term borrowings 
 
 -    
 -   
Loan Swapping/ Refinance -[New loan] 
 
 -    
 -   
Loan Swapping/ Refinance [Old loan] 
 
 -    
 -   
(Repayment) of Long-term  borrowings  
 
 (477.85) 
 (419.28)
Net Proceeds /(Repayment) of Long-term  borrowings 
 
 (477.85) 
 (419.28)
Change in Liability arising from finance activity  
 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
 
 
 
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Opening Balance- Long term borrowings (Including current portion) 
 477.92  
 897.26 
Cash flow (Net) 
 
 (477.85) 
 (419.28)
Loan Swapping/ Refinance -[New loan] 
 
 -    
 -   
Loan Swapping/ Refinance [Old loan] 
 
 -    
 -   
Non Cash movement 
 
 (0.07) 
 (0.06)
Closing Balance Long term borrowings (Including current portion) 
 -    
 477.92 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2023  
 
Refer Note 50 for reconciliation of lease liability under financing activities 
 
(v) Previous year figures have been regrouped and reclassified wherever considered necessary to conform to the current year's 
figures.
207
As per our report attached 
For Manubhai & Shah LLP 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of Gujarat Gas Limited 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Reg. No. – 106041W/W100136
K.B. Solanki 
Raj Kumar, IAS   
Milind Torawane, IAS  
 Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)
Partner  
Chairman               
Managing Director   
 Director
M. No. : 110299 
DIN - 00294527     
DIN - 03632394   
 DIN- 00023872  
 
 
 
 
 
 Nitesh Bhandari         
 Sandeep Dave
 
 
 
  
Chief Financial Officer   
 Company Secretary
Place :  Gandhinagar 
 
 
 Place :  Gandhinagar 
Date : 10th May, 2023 
 
 
 Date : 10th May, 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
(` in Crores)
(` in Crores)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
208
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (SOCIE) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2023 
Equity share capital 
 
As at 31st March 2023 
As at 31st March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the reporting period  
 
 137.68  
 137.68  
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors 
 
 -    
-    
Restated balance at the beginning of the reporting period 
 
 137.68  
 137.68  
Changes in equity share capital during the year 
 
 -    
-    
Balance at the end of the reporting period 
 
 137.68  
 137.68
(A) Equity Share Capital 
    (  in Crores)
`
** Capital Reserve is created on account of Business combination transaction (Refer note no. 56) 
 
 
 
 
 
Note (i): The "Amalgamation and Arrangement Reserve" created pursuant to scheme of amalgamation and arrangement is treated as free reserve based on the judgment of Honourable Gujarat High Court dated 18th April 2015 
read with relevant other court decisions. 
 
 
 
 
 
Note (ii): The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other comprehensive income. These changes are accumulated within the FVOCI equity investments reserve.  
Note (iii): Accumulated balance of Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligation, Gain/(Loss) net of tax, recognised in retained earnings is ` (7.56) Crores (Previous year ` (9.70) Crores). 
 
 
Note (iv): Nature and purpose of each reserve is disclosed under note no. 19 -'Other equity'
As per our report attached
For Manubhai & Shah LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Reg. No. – 106041W/W100136
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of Gujarat Gas Limited 
 
 
Raj Kumar, IAS   
 
Milind Torawane, IAS  
Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)  
Nitesh Bhandari         
Sandeep Dave
Chairman               
 
Managing Director   
Director 
Chief Financial Officer   
Company Secretary
DIN - 00294527     
 
DIN - 03632394  
DIN- 00023872
 
 
 
 
 
Date : 10th May, 2023
 
 
 
 
 
Place :  Gandhinagar 
K.B. Solanki
Partner
M. No. : 110299
Date : 10th May, 2023
Place :  Gandhinagar 
 
 
Amalgamation  
Capital 
General 
Retained  
Equity 
 
  
& Arrangement 
Reserve 
 Reserve 
Earnings 
Instruments
 
 
Reserve 
** 
 
 
through OCI
Balance at April 1, 2022 
 
 879.59  
 (23.98) 
 2.72  
 4,741.55  
 (107.63) 
 5,492.25 
Changes in accounting policy / prior period errors 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Restated balance at the beginning of the reporting period (a) 
 
 879.59  
 (23.98) 
 2.72  
 4,741.55  
 (107.63) 
 5,492.25 
Profit for the year 
 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 1,528.38  
 -    
 1,528.38 
Other comprehensive income for the year 
 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 6.22  
 6.22 
Items of OCI recognised directly in retained earnings: 
 
 
 
 
 
      Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligation, net of tax 
 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 2.14  
 -    
 2.14 
Total comprehensive income for the year (b) 
 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 1,530.52  
 6.22  
 1,536.74 
Distribution of ESOP trust fund (c) 
 
 -    
 -    
 
 (1.04) 
 -    
 (1.04)
Dividend (d) 
 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 (137.68) 
 -    
 (137.68)
Balance at March 31, 2023 (a+b+c+d) 
  
879.59  
 (23.98) 
 2.72  
 6,133.35  
 (101.41) 
 6,890.27  
Balance at April 1, 2021 
 
 879.59  
 (23.98) 
 2.72  
 3,591.30  
 (109.75) 
 4,339.88 
Changes in accounting policy / prior period errors 
 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
Restated balance at the beginning of the reporting period  (e) 
 
 879.59  
 (23.98) 
 2.72  
 3,591.30  
 (109.75) 
 4,339.88 
Profit for the year 
 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 1,287.37  
 -    
 1,287.37 
Other comprehensive income for the year 
 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 2.12  
 2.12 
Items of OCI recognised directly in retained earnings: 
 
 
 
 
 
      Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligation, net of tax 
 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 0.56  
 -    
 0.56 
Total comprehensive income for the year (f) 
 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 1,287.93  
 2.12  
 1,290.05 
Dividend (g)  
 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 (137.68) 
 -    
 (137.68)
Balance at March 31, 2022 (e+f+g) 
 
 879.59  
 (23.98) 
 2.72  
 4,741.55  
 (107.63) 
 5,492.25
(B) Other equity  
  (` in Crores)
Other equity 
Attributable to the equity holders of the Group
Reserves & Surplus
Items of Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Total Other 
Equity
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
209
Note 1 – Corporate Information 
 
1. 
Corporate Information
 
a) 
Gujarat Gas Limited (GGL or "Company") (CIN : L40200GJ2012SGC069118) formerly known as GSPC Distribution 
Networks Limited (GDNL) is a public limited company domiciled in India and incorporated under the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 1956. GGL is a Government Company u/s 2(45) of Companies Act 2013. Its shares are listed on Bombay 
Stock Exchange and National Stock Exchange in India.
 
 
The registered office is located at Gujarat Gas CNG Station, Sector 5/C, Gandhinagar -382006.
 
 
The Company is engaged in Natural Gas Business in India. Natural gas business involves distribution of gas from sources of 
supply to centres of demand and to the end customers.
 
 
The scheme of amalgamation and arrangement was sanctioned by the Hon’ble Gujarat High Court at Ahmedabad vide its 
order dated 30th March 2015 between the following transferor companies -
 
 
1. 
GSPC Gas Company Limited (GSPC Gas)
 
 
2. 
Gujarat Gas Company Limited (GGCL)
 
 
3. 
Gujarat Gas Financial Services Limited (GFSL)
 
 
4. 
Gujarat Gas Trading Company Limited (GTCL) 
 
 
(Collectively called Transferor Companies)
 
 
with Gujarat Gas Limited (formerly known as GSPC Distribution Networks Limited-GDNL) (the transferee) under the 
Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement with an appointed date of 1st April, 2013. Subsequently, the company's 
name has been changed from GSPC Distribution Networks Limited to Gujarat Gas Limited (GGL) with effect from 
15th May 2015.
 
b) 
Authorization of financial statements
 
 
The Consolidated Financial Statements were approved and authorized for issue in accordance with a resolution passed in 
meeting of Board of the Directors held on 10th May 2023.
 
c) 
Functional and Presentation Currency
 
 
The financial statements are presented in Indian rupee ` (INR), which is the functional and presentation currency of the 
Group.
Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies
 
This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. These 
policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
 
Basis of Preparation
 
(i) Statement of Compliance with Ind AS
 
 
The consolidated financial statements has been prepared in accordance and comply in all material aspects with Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified and applicable under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) 
[Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015] and other relevant provisions of the Act and read with Rule 3 of 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended and Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2016 and relevant amendment rules issued thereafter.  
 
 
Accordingly, the Group has prepared these Consolidated Financial Statements which comprise the Balance Sheet as at 31 
March, 2023, the Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended 31 March 2023, the Statement of Cash Flows for the 
year ended 31 March 2023 and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended as on that date, and accounting 
policies and other explanatory information (together hereinafter referred to as ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ or 
‘financial statements’).
 
 
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non-current as per the Group's normal operating cycle and other 
criteria set out in the Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013.
 
(ii) Historical cost convention
 
 
The financial statements are prepared as a going concern on accrual basis of accounting under historical cost convention, 
except for the following:
 
 
• 
certain financial instruments measured at fair value;
 
 
• 
defined benefit plans - plan assets measured at fair value; and 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
210
 
Associates
 
Investment in associate has been accounted for using Equity Method in accordance with Ind AS 28 - Investments in Associates 
and Joint Ventures. Under the equity method of accounting, the investments are initially recognised at cost and adjusted 
thereafter to recognise the group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses of the investee in profit and loss, and the 
group’s share of other comprehensive income of the investee in other comprehensive income. Dividends received or receivable 
from associates and joint ventures are recognised as a reduction in the carrying amount of the investment.
 
Any excess / short of the amount of Investment in an associate over the cost of acquisition at the date of Investment is 
considered as Capital Reserve and has been included in carrying amount of Investment  and disclosed separately. The carrying 
amount of Investment is adjusted thereafter for the post acquisition changes in the Share of net Asset of associate.
 
When the group’s share of losses in an equity-accounted investment equals or exceeds its interest in the entity, including any 
other unsecured long-term receivables, the group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made 
payments on behalf of the other entity.
 
Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the group’s interest in 
these entities. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset 
transferred. Accounting policies of equity accounted investees have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with 
the policies adopted by the group.
 
The financial statements of associates are prepared up to the same reporting date as that of the company i.e. 31st March 2023 
for the current year, 31st March 2022 for the comparative year. 
 
100% Sole beneficiary entity
 
100% Sole beneficiary entities are all entities (including structured entities) over which the group has control. The group controls 
an entity when the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to 
affect those returns through its power to direct the relevant activities of the entity. 100% Sole beneficiary entities are fully 
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control 
ceases. 
 
The group combines the financial statements of the parent and its 100% Sole beneficiary entity line by line adding together like 
items of assets, liabilities, equity, income and expenses. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on 
transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the transferred asset. Accounting policies of 100% Sole beneficiary entity have been aligned 
where necessary. 
 
Use of estimates and judgements
 
The presentation of the financial statements  are in conformity with the Ind AS which requires the management to make 
estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and 
disclosure of contingent liabilities. Such estimates and assumptions are based on management's evaluation of relevant facts and 
circumstances as on the date of financial statements. The actual outcome may differ from these estimates. 
 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to the accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
 
This note provides an overview of the areas that involved a higher degree of judgement or complexity, and of items which are 
more likely to be materially adjusted due to estimates and assumptions turning out to be different than those originally assessed. 
Detailed information about each of these estimates and judgements is included in relevant notes together with information 
about the basis of calculation for each affected line item in the financial statements.
Name of the Undertaking
Guj Info Petro Limited (GIPL)
Gujarat Gas Limited Employees Welfare Stock 
Option Trust
Relationship
Associate
100% Sole beneficiary
Country of 
Incorporation
India
India
Proportionate  
beneficial ownership 
interest/voting power
49.94%
100%
 
(iii) Principles of consolidation and equity accounting
 
 
The consolidated Financial Statements of the Group represents consolidation of Company’s Financial Statements with Guj 
Info Petro Limited (GIPL), an associate company and Gujarat Gas Limited Employees Welfare Stock Option Trust, 100% 
Sole beneficiary (collectively referred to as ‘the Group’).
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
211
 
Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment 
within the next financial year are included in the following notes:
 
Note 3.1 & 5.1: 
Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 
Note 12:  
 
Recognition and measurement of unbilled gas sales revenue
 
Note 26, 27,28 &29:  
Recognition and measurement of other provisions
 
Note 40:  
 
Current/deferred tax expense (Including estimates for Uncertain tax treatments)
 
Note 43:  
 
Contingent liabilities and assets
 
Note 45:  
 
Expected credit loss for receivables
 
Note 45:  
 
Fair valuation of unlisted securities
 
Note 47:  
 
Measurement of defined benefit obligations
 
Note 5.3 & 50: 
Definition of Lease, lease term and discount rate
(a) Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property plant and equipment are stated at their cost of acquisition / construction less depreciation and impairment, if any. The 
cost comprises of the purchase price and any attributable cost for bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use; 
like freight, duties, taxes and other incidental expenses, net of CENVAT or Goods and service tax (GST) credit.
 
The Company capitalises to project assets all the cost directly attributable and ascertainable, to completing the project. These 
costs include expenditure of pipelines, plant and machinery, cost of laying of pipeline, cost of survey, commissioning and testing 
charge, detailed engineering and interest on borrowings attributable to acquisition of such assets. The gas distribution networks 
are treated as commissioned when supply of gas commences to the customer(s). 
 
Subsequent expenditures, including replacement costs where applicable, incurred for an item Property plant and equipment are 
added to its book value only if they increase the future benefits from the existing asset beyond its previously assessed standard 
of performance and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component accounted for as a 
separate asset is de-recognised when replaced. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred. 
 
Component accounting of assets: If significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, then 
they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment. The Company has identified, 
reviewed, tested and determined the componentisation of the significant assets.
 
Assets installed at customer premises, including meters and regulators where applicable, are recognised as property plant and 
equipment if they meet the definition provided under Ind AS 16 subject to materiality as determined by the management and 
followed consistently.
 
Any item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or when no 
future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated 
as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is charged to revenue in the income 
statement when the asset is derecognised.
 
The cost and related accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the financial statements upon sale or retirement of the asset. 
 
On transition to Ind AS, the Company had elected to carry forward the previous GAAP net carrying value of all its property, plant 
and equipment recognized as at 1st April, 2015 as the deemed cost.
 
Capital work in Progress:
 
Capital Work in Progress includes expenditure incurred on assets, which are yet to be commissioned and capital inventory, which 
comprises stock of capital items/construction materials at respective city gas network.
 
All the directly identifiable and ascertainable expenditure, incidental and related to construction incurred during the period of 
construction on a project, till it is commissioned, are kept as Capital work in progress (CWIP)and disclosed under ‘Capital work-
in-progress’ and after commissioning the same is transferred / allocated to the respective category of property, plant and 
equipment.
 
Further, advances paid towards the acquisition of property, plant and equipment outstanding at each balance sheet date are 
classified as capital advances under other non- current assets.
(b) Investment Properties
 
Investment properties comprises of free hold or lease hold land that are held for rental yield and/or capital appreciation. 
 
Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs and where applicable borrowing costs. 
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to the asset's carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and 
maintenance costs are expensed as and when incurred. When part of an investment property is replaced, the carrying amount of 
the replaced part is derecognised.
 
On transition to Ind AS, the Company had elected to carry forward the previous GAAP net carrying value of all its investment 
property recognized as at 1st April, 2015 as the deemed cost.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(c) Intangible assets
 
Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment. Intangible Assets includes amount paid 
towards obtaining the Right of Use (ROU) of land and Right of Way (ROW) permissions for laying the gas pipeline network and 
cost of developing software for internal use. The Company capitalises software as Intangible Asset where it is expected to 
provide future enduring economic benefits. Cost associated with maintaining software programmes are recognised as expenses 
as and when incurred.
 
Any item of intangible assets is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or 
disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the intangible asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the intangible asset) is charged to revenue in the income statement when the intangible 
asset is derecognised.
 
On transition to Ind AS, the Company had elected to carry forward the previous GAAP net carrying value of all its intangible 
assets recognized as at 1st April, 2015 as the deemed cost.
(d) Depreciation and amortisation methods, estimated useful lives and residual values
 
Depreciation is calculated to systematically allocate the cost of property, plant and equipment, intangible asset and investment 
property net of the estimated residual values over the estimated useful life. Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation is 
computed using Straight Line Method (SLM) over the useful lives of the assets as specified in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 
2013, read with the following notes:
 
i. 
The Schedule specifies useful life of Pipelines as 30 years for those used in exploration, production and refining of oil and 
gas. The Company has considered the useful life of 30 years for the pipelines used in city gas distribution business. 
 
ii. 
City gas stations, skids, pressure regulating stations, meters and regulators are estimated to have useful life of 18 years 
based on technical assessment made by technical expert and management.
 
iii. 
Cost of mobile phones, are expensed off in the year of purchase.
 
iv. 
Temporary building structures are estimated to have useful life of 1 year.
 
The management believes that these useful lives are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the period over which the assets 
are likely to be used. The useful lives are reviewed by the management at each financial year end and revised, if appropriate. In 
case of a revision, the unamortised depreciable amount (remaining net value of assets) is charged over the revised remaining 
useful lives.
 
Based on management estimate, residual value of 5% is considered for respective tangible assets except for the Pipeline 
Network assets where the residual value is considered to be NIL as the said assets technically and commercially not feasible to 
extract from underground.
 
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment (PPE) are reviewed at the end of 
each financial year and adjusted prospectively if appropriate.
 
Component accounting of assets: If significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, then 
they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment and accordingly depreciated at 
the useful lives specified as above.
 
Depreciation on items of property, plant and equipment acquired / disposed off during the year is provided on pro-rata basis 
with reference to the date of addition / disposal.
 
Investment properties, if any, are depreciated based on the useful life prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013.
 
Intangible assets are amortized over their individual estimated useful lives on a Straight Line basis, commencing from the year in 
which the same are available to the company for its intended use. The useful lives as estimated by the management for the 
intangible assets are as follows: 
 
I. 
Right of Way (ROW) Permissions 
30 Years
 
 
(Considered more than 10 years as inextricably linked and dependent on the useful life of pipeline networks as referred 
above for which the Right of Way has been obtained).
 
II. 
Software 
 
6 Years.
 
No amortisation is charged on Right of Use (RoU) of land being perpetual in nature. The same is tested for impairment based on 
principles of Ind AS 36.
 
The Company has constructed / installed CNG stations' buildings and machineries, on land taken on lease from various lessor 
under lease deed for periods ranging from 35 years to 99 years. However, assets constructed / installed on such land have been 
depreciated at useful lives as referred above.
 
Capital assets /facilities installed at the customers’ premises on the land of the customers/CNG franchisee whose ownership is 
not with the company have been depreciated at the useful lives specified as above.
212
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
213
(e) Impairment of non-financial assets
 
In accordance with Ind AS 36 on “Impairment of Assets” at the balance sheet date, non-financial assets are reviewed for 
impairment losses whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.  For 
the purpose of assessing impairment, the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use 
that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets, is considered as a cash generating unit. If 
any such indication exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount of the asset/cash generating unit is made. Assets whose 
carrying value exceeds their recoverable amount are written down to the recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is higher of 
an asset’s or cash generating unit’s net selling price and its value in use. Assessment is also done at each Balance Sheet date as to 
whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognized for an asset in prior accounting periods may no longer exist or 
may have decreased.
 
Impairment losses of continuing operations, including impairment on inventories, are recognised in the statement of profit and 
loss, except for properties previously revalued with the revaluation surplus taken to Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). For 
such properties, the impairment is recognised in OCI up to the amount of any previous revaluation surplus.
(f) Revenue recognition
 
i) 
Revenue from operation 
 
 
Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance obligation is measured at the amount of transaction price (net of variable 
consideration) allocated to that performance obligation. The transaction price of goods sold and services rendered is net of 
variable consideration on account of discounts and rebates, if any, as part of the contract in the normal course of the 
Company's activities.
 
 
Income is recognized in the income statement when the control of the goods or services has been transferred. The amount 
recognised as revenue is stated inclusive of excise duty and exclusive of sales tax /value added tax (VAT) and Goods and 
service tax (GST). 
 
 
Revenue from sale of Natural Gas is recognized at the point in time when control is transferred to the customer, generally on 
delivery of the gas on metered/assessed measurements facility. Sales are billed bi-monthly for domestic customers, 
monthly/fortnightly for commercial and non-commercial customers and fortnightly / 10 days basis for industrial 
customers. 
 
 
Revenue from sale of Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) is recognized at the point in time when control is transferred to the 
customer, generally on delivery of the gas to consumers from retail outlets and is billed weekly / fortnightly cycle in case of  
OMC customers.
 
 
Revenue recognised towards supply of natural gas already occurred for the period from the end of the last billing date to the 
Balance Sheet date has been reflected under “Trade receivables”(which refer as unbilled revenue)  which is calculated  
based on customer wise previous average consumption.
 
 
Gas transmission income is recognized over the period in which the related volumes of gas are delivered to the customers.
 
 
Commitments (take or pay charges) income from customers for gas sales and gas transmission is recognized on accrual 
basis in the period to which it relates to. 
 
 
In case of industrial customers, non-refundable charges for initial or additional gas connection collected from the 
customers is deferred over the period of contract with respective customers and in case of domestic & commercial 
customers is deferred over the useful life of the asset.
 
 
Revenue of yearly fees income is recognised on accrual basis over the period, on time proportion basis, considering the 
terms of the underlying contract with customers. For Domestic customers, as the amount for yearly fees is collected post 
completion of the year, unbilled yearly fees is calculated on time proportionate basis from the due date to the Balance Sheet 
date and the same is disclosed under “Trade receivables” (which refer as unbilled revenue).” For Commercial/Non-
Commercial customers, Yearly fees is billed in advance to the customers calculated based on time proportionate basis is 
deferred over such period and the same is disclosed under Other current liabilities as “Deferred revenue”
 
 
Change of Estimate for unbilled revenue and its impact on P&L:
 
 
Till the financial year 2021-22, unbilled revenue of yearly fees income was calculated considering average number of 
customers based on latest billing cycle. For more accurate unbilled revenue accounting, from the financial year 2022-23, 
unbilled yearly fees are calculated on time proportionate basis.  As a result of the change in basis of estimate, the additional 
impact in yearly fees is Rs. 7.58 Crore recognised in books of accounts for the financial year 2022-23 as compared to 
previous financial year 2021-22  which is not material.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
214
 
ii) 
Other income 
 
 
Revenue in respect of interest/ late payment charges on delayed realizations from customers and cheque bounce charges, 
if any, is recognized on grounds of prudence and on the basis of certainty of collection.
 
 
Liquidated damages, if any are recognized at the time of recording the purchase of materials in books of accounts and the 
matter is considered settled by the management.
 
 
Interest income is recognized on time proportion basis taking into account the amount outstanding and the rate applicable. 
Interest income is recognised using effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash receipts through expected life of the financial asset to the gross carrying amount of the financial 
asset. When calculating the effective interest rate, the company estimates the expected cash flows by considering all the 
contractual terms of the financial instrument but does not consider the expected credit losses.
 
 
Dividend income is recognised, when the right to receive the dividend is established by the reporting date.
 
 
Investment property rental income is recognised as revenue on accrual basis as per the terms of the underlying contract.
 
 
Other operating income and misc. income are accounted on accrual basis as and when the right to receive arises.
(g) Borrowing
 
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings –interest bearing loans are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost by using the effective interest method (EIR method). Any difference between the 
proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption amount is recognised in profit or loss over the period of borrowing using 
the effective interest method (EIR). The EIR Amortization is included as Finance Costs in the statement of profit and loss.
 
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of loan to the extent that it is probable that 
some or all the facility will be drawn down.  In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw down occurs. To the extent there is no 
evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is deferred as a payment for liquidity 
services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
 
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. 
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred to another party and 
the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss as other 
income or other expenses as well as through the EIR amortization process.
 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at 
least 12 months after the reporting period. Where there is a breach of a material provision of a long term loan arrangement on or 
before the end of reporting period with the effect that the liability becomes payable on demand on the reporting date, the Group 
does not classify the liability as current, if the lender agreed, after the reporting period and before the approval of the financial 
statement for issue, not to demand payment as a consequence of the breach.
(h) Borrowing Cost
 
The Group is capitalising general and specific borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of 
qualifying asset up to the date of commissioning. Qualifying assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time 
to get ready for their intended use or sale. The Expenses incurred in connection with the arrangement of specific borrowings are 
capitalized over the period of the borrowing and every year such cost is apportioned to assets based on the actual amount 
borrowed during the year. All other borrowing costs are recognized as expense in the period in which they are incurred and 
charged to the statement of profit and loss.
 
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowing pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is 
deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
(i) 
Financial Instruments
 
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument 
of another entity.
 
Financial Asset
 
Initial Recognition
 
A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet only when, the Company becomes party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
 
Initial Measurement
 
At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial asset or financial liability at its fair value plus or minus, in the case of a 
financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability, except trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing 
component, are measured at transaction price.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
 
Subsequent Measurement
 
 
For purpose of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified into:
 
 
• 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost;
 
 
• 
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL); and
 
 
• 
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI).
 
 
The Company classifies its financial assets in the above mentioned categories based on:
 
 
• 
The Company’s business model for managing the financial assets, and
 
 
• 
The contractual cash flows characteristics of the financial asset.
 
A financial assets is measured at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met:
 
• 
The financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual 
cash flows and
 
• 
The contractual terms of the financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal 
and interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.
 
Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost is 
calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. 
The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the profit or loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the 
profit or loss. 
 
A financial asset is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if both of the following conditions are met:
 
• 
The financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting the contractual cash 
flows and selling financial assets and
 
• 
The assets contractual cash flows represent SPPI.
 
A financial asset is measured at fair value through profit or loss unless it is measured at amortised cost or at fair value through 
other comprehensive income. In addition, the Company is elected to designate a financial asset, which otherwise meets 
amortized cost or FVTOCI criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates a 
measurement or recognition inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’).
 
Equity Investments:
 
All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are held for trading are 
classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Company has made an irrevocable election to present in other 
comprehensive income subsequent changes in the fair value. The Company makes such election on an instrument by-
instrument basis. The classification is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
 
If the Company decides to classify an equity instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument, excluding 
dividends, are recognized in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to statement of profit and loss, even on sale 
of investment. However, the Company may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity. Equity instruments included within 
the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes recognized in the Profit and Loss.
 
De-recognition
 
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is primarily 
derecognised (i.e. removed from the Company's balance sheet) when:
 
1. 
The contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset have expired, or
 
2. 
The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the 
received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either
 
 
i) 
The Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or
 
 
ii) 
The Company has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset.
 
When the Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through 
arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership. When it has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Company 
continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of the Company’s continuing involvement. In that case, the Company 
also recognises an associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the 
rights and obligations that the Company has retained.
 
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original 
carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Company could be required to repay.
215
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
216
 
Embedded foreign currency derivative
 
Embedded foreign currency derivatives are not separated from the host contract if they are closely related. Such embedded 
derivatives are closely related to the host contract, if the host contract is not leveraged, does not contain any option feature and 
requires payments in one of the following currencies:
 
• 
the functional currency of any substantial party to that contract,
 
• 
the currency in which the price of the related good or service that is acquired or delivered is routinely denominated in 
commercial transactions around the world,
 
• 
a currency that is commonly used in contracts to purchase or sell non-financial items in the economic environment in 
which the transaction takes place (i.e. relatively liquid and stable currency).
 
Foreign currency embedded derivatives which do not meet the above criteria are separated and the derivative is accounted for 
at fair value through profit and loss. The Company currently does not have any such derivatives which are not closely related.
 
Impairment of Financial Assets
 
The Company assesses impairment based on expected credit loss (ECL) model to the following:
 
• 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
 
• 
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
 
Expected credit losses are measured through a loss allowance at an amount equal to:
 
• 
The 12-months expected credit losses (expected credit losses that result from those default events on the financial 
instrument that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date); or
 
• 
Full time expected credit losses (expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the life of the 
financial instrument).
 
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables or contract 
revenue receivables. Under the simplified approach, the Company is not required to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it 
recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs together with appropriate management estimates for credit loss 
at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
 
The Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on the portfolio of trade receivables. The 
provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the trade receivable and is adjusted 
for forward looking estimates. At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are updated and changes in the 
forward-looking estimates are analysed.
 
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized during the period is recognized as income/ expense in the statement of 
profit and loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the statement of Profit and Loss. The balance sheet 
presentation for various financial instruments is described below:
 
• 
Financial assets measured as at amortised cost and contractual revenue receivables - ECL is presented as an allowance, i.e., 
as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the balance sheet. The allowance reduces the net carrying 
amount. Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the company does not reduce impairment allowance from the gross 
carrying amount.
 
• 
Financial assets measured at FVTOCI - Since financial assets are already reflected at fair value, impairment allowance is not 
further reduced from its value. Rather, ECL amount is presented as accumulated impairment amount in the OCI.
 
For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, the Company combines financial instruments on the basis of shared 
credit risk characteristics with the objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable significant increases in credit risk 
to be identified on a timely basis.
 
The Company does not have any purchased or originated credit-impaired (POCI) financial assets, i.e., financial assets which are 
credit impaired on purchase/ origination.
 
Financial Liabilities
 
Initial recognition and measurement
 
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss for loans and 
borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, and financial liabilities 
measured at amortised value as appropriate.
 
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly 
attributable transaction costs.
 
The Company’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loan and borrowings including bank overdrafts, financial 
guarantee contracts and derivative financial instruments.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
Subsequent measurement
 
• 
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
 
• 
Financial liabilities subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss
 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated 
upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are 
incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the profit 
or loss.
 
Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such at the initial date 
of recognition, and only if the criteria in Ind AS 109 are satisfied. For liabilities designated as FVTPL, fair value gains/ losses 
attributable to changes in own credit risk are recognized in OCI. These gains/ loss are not subsequently transferred to Profit and 
Loss. However, the Company is transferred the cumulative gain or loss within equity. All other changes in fair value of such 
liability are recognised in the statement of profit or loss. The Company has not designated any financial liability as at fair value 
through profit and loss.
 
Financial guarantee contracts
 
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the 
holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt 
instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction costs that are 
directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the amount of loss 
allowance determined as per impairment requirements of Ind AS 109 and the amount recognised less cumulative amortisation.
 
Loan and borrowings
 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Effective 
Interest Rate (EIR) method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as 
through the EIR amortisation process. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on 
acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement 
of profit and loss.
 
Trade and other payables
 
These amounts represent liability for goods and services provided to the Company prior to the end of financial year which are 
unpaid. Trade and other payables are presented as current liabilities unless payment is not due within 12 months after the 
reporting period. They are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
 
Lease liabilities
 
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, 
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the Company’s incremental 
borrowing rate. Subsequently, the lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
 
Derecognition
 
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability 
are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
(j) 
Offsetting financial instruments
 
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable 
right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal 
course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the group or the counterparty.
(k) Fair Value Measurement
 
The Company measures certain financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the 
asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
 
• 
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
 
• 
In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
217
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
218
 
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company. The fair value of an asset or a liability is 
measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market 
participants act in their economic best interest.
 
The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to 
measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
 
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair 
value hierarchy, described as under, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
 
• 
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 
• 
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or 
indirectly observable.
 
• 
Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is 
unobservable.
 
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
 
The Company's management determines the policies and procedures for both recurring fair value measurement, such as 
unquoted financial assets measured at fair value, and for non-recurring measurement, such as assets held for distribution in 
discontinued operations. The management comprises of the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer.
 
External valuers are involved for valuation of significant assets, such as unquoted financial assets. Involvement of external valuers is 
decided upon annually and approval by the management. Selection criteria include market knowledge, reputation, independence 
and whether professional standards are maintained. Valuers are normally rotated every three years. The management decides, after 
discussions with the Company's external valuers, which valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case.
 
At each reporting date, the management analyses the movements in the values of assets and liabilities which are required to be 
re-measured or re-assessed as per the Company’s accounting policies. For this analysis, the management verifies the major 
inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information in the valuation.
 
The management, in conjunction with the Company's external valuers, also compares the change in the fair value of each asset 
and liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change is reasonable.
 
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, 
characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
 
This note summarises accounting policy for fair value. Other fair value related disclosures are given in the relevant notes. 
(Refer note 45)
 
1. 
Disclosures for valuation methods, significant estimates and assumptions.
 
2. 
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy.
 
3. 
Investment in unquoted equity shares.
 
4. 
Financial instruments (including those carried at amortised cost).
(l) 
Inventories
 
Inventory of Gas (including inventory in pipeline and CNG cascades) is valued at lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is 
determined on weighted average cost method.
 
Stores, spares and consumables are valued at lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is determined on moving weighted 
average basis.
 
Inventories of Project materials (capital Inventory) are valued at cost on moving weighted average basis.
(m) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operation
 
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use and a sale is considered highly probable. They are measured at the lower of their carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell, except for assets such as deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits, 
financial assets and contractual rights under insurance contracts, which are specifically exempt from this requirement.
 
An impairment loss is recognised for any initial or subsequent write-down of the asset to fair value less costs to sell. A gain is 
recognised for any subsequent increases in fair value less costs to sell of an asset, but not in excess of any cumulative 
impairment loss previously recognised. A gain or loss not previously recognised by the date of the sale of the non-current asset 
(or disposal group) is recognised at the date of de-recognition.
 
Non-current assets are not depreciated or amortised while they are classified as held for sale. Non-current assets classified as 
held for sale are presented separately from the other assets in the balance sheet.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Company that has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and that 
represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of 
such a line of business or area of operations, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. The results of 
discontinued operations are presented separately in the statement of profit and loss.
(n) Foreign Currency Transactions
 
(i) 
Functional and Presentation Currency
 
 
Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the Company operates ('the functional currency'). The financial statements are presented in Indian rupee (INR), which is 
the functional and presentation currency of the Company.
 
(ii) Transactions and balances
 
 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates at the date of the 
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year-end exchange rates are 
generally recognised in profit or loss.
 
 
All foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the statement of profit and loss on a net basis within other income or 
other expenses.
 
 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency are 
translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. Translation differences on assets and 
liabilities carried at fair value are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
(o) Employee Benefits
 
Employees Benefits are provided in the books as per Ind AS -19 on “Employee Benefits” in the following manner:
 
A. 
Post-employment benefit plans
 
I. 
Defined Contribution Plan
 
 
Contribution towards provident fund for eligible employees are accrued in accordance with applicable statutes and 
deposited with the regulatory provident fund authorities (Government administered provident fund scheme). The 
Company does not carry any other obligation apart from the monthly contribution.
 
 
The Company contributes under the National Pension System scheme for eligible employees at a rate specified in the rules 
of the scheme and deposited with concerned agency/authority. 
 
 
The Company’s contribution is recognised as an expenses in the statement of Profit and Loss during the period in which the 
employee renders the related service.
 
II. 
Defined benefit plan
 
 
The company provides for gratuity, a defined benefit plan covering eligible employees in accordance with the Payment of 
Gratuity Act, 1972, through an approved Gratuity Fund. The Gratuity Fund is separately administered through a 
Trust/Scheme. Contributions in respect of gratuity are made to the approved Gratuity Fund. 
 
 
The Company's liability is actuarially determined by qualified actuary (using the Projected Unit Credit method) at the end of 
each year and is recognized in the Balance sheet as reduced by the fair value of Gratuity Fund. Actuarial losses/ gains are 
recognized in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income in the year in which they arise.
 
III. Long term employee benefits
 
 
The liability in respect of accrued leave benefits which are expected to be availed or en-cashed beyond 12 months from the 
end of the year, is treated as long term employee benefits. 
 
 
The Company's liability for leave benefits are actuarially determined by qualified actuary at balance sheet date by using the 
Projected Unit Credit method. Actuarial losses/ gains are recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the year in which 
they arise.
 
B. 
Other Long Term Service benefits
 
 
- 
Long Service Award (LSA):
 
 
On completion of specified period of service with the company, employees are rewarded with Cash Reward of different 
amount based on the duration of service completed.
 
 
The Company's liability is actuarially determined by qualified actuary at balance sheet date at the present value of the 
amount payable for the same. Actuarial losses/ gains are recognized in the Statement of profit and loss in the year in which 
they arise.
219
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
C.  Short term employee benefits
 
 
The undiscounted amount of short term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for services rendered by 
employees is recognized during the period when the employee renders the services. Short term employee benefits 
includes salary and wages, bonus, incentive, ex-gratia, death compensation and also includes accrued leave benefits, which 
are expected to be availed or en-cashed within 12 months from the end of the year.
 
D. 
Employee Stock Option Plan
 
 
Share-based compensation benefits are provided to employees via Employee Stock Option Plan. For the stock options 
granted, the fair value as of the date of grant of option is recognised as employee benefit expenses with a corresponding 
increase in Stock Options Outstanding Account. The total expense is recognised on straight line basis over the vesting 
period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
(p) Leases
 
The Company’s leased asset classes primarily consist of leases for land, buildings, plant & machinery equipment’s and vehicles.
 
Under Ind AS 116, the Company assesses whether a contract contains a lease, at the inception of the contract. A contract is, or 
contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Company assesses 
whether 
 
- 
the contract involves the use of identified asset; 
 
- 
the Company has substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the asset through the period of lease; and
 
- 
the Company has right to direct the use of the asset.
 
The Company evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to be a lease as per the requirements of Ind AS 116. Identification of a lease 
requires significant judgment. The Company uses significant judgement in assessing the lease term (including anticipated 
renewals/termination options) and the applicable discount rate.
 
 Company as a lessee
 
The Company recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is 
initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or 
before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the 
underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received.
 
Certain lease arrangement includes the options to extend or terminate the lease before the end of the lease term. The right-of-
use assets and lease liabilities includes these options when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.  
 
The right-of-use asset is subsequently amortized using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the earlier of 
the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use assets 
are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically 
reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain re-measurements of the lease liability.
 
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, 
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the Company’s incremental 
borrowing rate. The discount rate is generally based on the incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease being evaluated or 
for a portfolio of leases with similar characteristics.
 
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprises of fixed payments, including in-substance fixed 
payments, amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee and the exercise price under a purchase option that 
the Company is reasonably certain to exercise, lease payments in an optional renewal period if the Company is reasonably 
certain to exercise an extension option.
 
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured when there is a change in 
future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a change in the Company’s estimate of the amount 
expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or if Company changes its assessment of whether it will exercise a 
purchase, extension or termination option. 
 
When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-
use asset or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero. 
220
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
221
 
Modifications to a lease agreement beyond the original terms and conditions are generally accounted for as a re-measurement 
of the lease liability with a corresponding adjustment to the ROU asset. Any gain or loss on modification is recognized in the 
Statement of Profit & Loss. However, the modifications that increase the scope of the lease by adding the right to use one or 
more underlying assets at a price commensurate with the stand-alone selling price are accounted for as a separate new lease. In 
case of lease modifications, discounting rates used for measurement of lease liability and ROU assets is also suitably adjusted.
 
Lease liability and ROU lease asset have been separately presented in the Balance Sheet and lease payments have been 
classified as cash flows from financing activities.
 
Short-term leases, low-value assets and others:
 
The Company has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short term leases that have a lease term 
of less than or equal to 12 months with no purchase option and assets with low value leases. 
 
The Company recognises the lease payments associated with leases assets that have lease period of 12 month or less, 
remaining lease period of 12 months or less as on transition date, rental charges of low value assets, component of taxes of ROU 
lease charges,  non- lease component viz. manpower, fuel cost, repair and maintenance is recognised as an expense in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss over the lease term. The related cash flows are classified as operating activities.
 
 As a lessor
 
Finance lease
 
Leases for which the Company is a lessor is classified as finance or operating leases. When the terms of the lease transfer 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the contract is classified as a finance lease. All other leases are 
classified as operating leases.
 
All assets given on finance lease are shown as receivables at an amount equal to net investment in the lease. Principal component 
of the lease receipts is adjusted against outstanding receivables and interest income is accounted by applying the interest rate 
implicit in the lease to the net investment.
 
Operating lease
 
Lease income from operating leases where the Company is a lessor is recognised in income on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the relevant lease. In case of modification of contractual terms, the same is accounted as a new lease, considering any prepaid 
or accrued lease payments relating to the original lease as part of the lease payments for the new lease.
(q) Taxation
 
Income tax expenses comprises current tax (i.e. amount of tax for the period determined in accordance with the Income 
Tax Law) and deferred tax charge or credit (reflecting the tax effects of timing differences between accounting income and 
taxable income for the period). Income tax expenses are recognised in statement of profit or loss except tax expenses related to 
items recognised directly in reserves (including statement of other comprehensive income) which are recognised with the 
underlying items.
 
Income Taxes
 
The income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax payable on the current period's taxable income based on the applicable 
income tax rate for each jurisdiction adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary 
differences and to unused tax losses.
 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the 
reporting period i.e. as per the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, as amended from time to time. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation 
including amount expected to be paid / recovered for uncertain tax positions. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the 
basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
 
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid and 
income tax provision arising in the same tax jurisdiction for relevant tax paying units and where the Company is able to and 
intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.
 
Deferred Taxes
 
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary difference arising between the tax bases of the assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in financial statements at the reporting date. Deferred tax are recognised in respect of deductible temporary 
differences being the difference between taxable income and accounting income that originate in one period and are capable of 
reversal in one or more subsequent periods., the carry forward of unused tax losses and the carry forward of unused tax credits. 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the 
reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax 
liability is settled.
 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that 
future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences and losses.
 
Deferred tax assets are not recognised for temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax bases of investments in 
subsidiaries, branches and associates and interest in joint arrangements where it is not probable that the differences will reverse 
in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will not be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
 
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax bases of investments 
in subsidiaries, branches and associates and interest in joint arrangements where it is probable that the differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and 
when the deferred tax balances relate to the same taxation authority. Current tax assets and tax liabilities are offset where the 
Company has a legally enforceable right to offset and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the 
liability simultaneously.
 
Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in 
equity, respectively.
 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised 
deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that 
future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is 
subject to interpretation and considers whether it is probable that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment. 
The Company measures its tax balances either based on the most likely amount or the expected value, depending on which 
method provides a better prediction of the resolution of the uncertainty.
(r) Earnings Per Share
 
Basic earnings per share
 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the period. Earnings considered in ascertaining the Group's earnings per share is the 
net profit for the period after deducting preference dividends, if any, and any attributable distribution tax thereto for the period. 
 
Diluted earnings per share
 
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take into account the after 
income tax effect of interest and other financing costs associated with dilutive potential equity shares and the weighted average 
number of additional equity shares that would have been outstanding assuming the conversion of all dilutive potential equity 
shares.
 
Treasury Share
 
Treasury shares are not treated as outstanding ordinary equity shares and are therefore deducted from the number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period in consolidated financial statements.
(s) Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be 
made of the amount of the obligation. Provision for contractual obligation is disclosed based on management's assessment of 
the probable outcome with reference to the available information supplemented by experience of similar transactions. When the 
Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset, but only when 
the reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense relating to a provision is presented in the statement of profit and loss net of 
any reimbursement.
 
Provision in respect of loss contingencies relating to claims, litigation, assessment, fines, penalties etc. are recognised when it is 
probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be estimated reliably.
222
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
223
 
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. Provisions for restructuring are recognised by the Group when it has 
developed a detailed formal plan for restructuring and has raised a valid expectation that the Company will carry out the 
restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
 
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by 
considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any 
one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
 
Provisions are measured at management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end 
of the reporting period and are not discounted to present value. The estimates of outcome and financial effect are determined by 
the judgment of the management, supplemented by experience of similar transactions and, in some cases, reports from 
independent experts.
 
The measurement of provision for restructuring includes only direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are both 
necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the Group.
 
Contingent liability is disclosed in the case of:
 
1. 
A present obligation arising from the past events, when it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation;
 
2. 
A present obligation arising from the past events, when no reliable estimate is possible;
 
3. 
A possible obligation arising from the past events, unless the probability of outflow of resources is remote.
 
Contingent liabilities are not provided for and if material, are disclosed by way of notes to financial statements. 
 
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence 
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the entity.
 
Contingent assets are not recognised in financial statements since this may result in the recognition of income that may never 
be realised. However, Contingent assets are assessed continually and if it is virtually certain that an inflow of economic benefits 
will arise, the asset and related income are recognised in the period in which the change occurs.
 
A contingent asset is disclosed by way of notes to financial statements, where an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
 
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
(t) Segment Reporting
 
The Company primarily operates in the segment of Natural Gas Business. Natural gas business involves distribution of gas from 
sources of supply to centres of demand and to the end customers. The Managing Director of the Company allocate resources 
and assess the performance of the Company, thus are the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The CODM monitors the 
operating results of the business as a single segment, hence no separate segment needs to be disclosed. 
(u) Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and deposits with banks and corporations. The Group considers all highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less and that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash to be 
cash equivalents.
 
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, deposits held 
at call with financial institutions and other short term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less 
that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
(v) Statement of Cash Flows
 
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, whereby profit before tax is adjusted for the effects of transactions of a non-
cash nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or payments and item of income or expenses 
associated with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities of the Group 
are segregated.
(w) Dividends
 
The Company recognises a liability for dividends to equity holders of the Company when the dividend is authorised and the 
dividend is no longer at the discretion of the Company. As per the corporate laws in India, a dividend is authorised when it is 
approved by the shareholders. A corresponding amount is recognised directly in equity.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
224
(x) Insurance Claims
 
The company accounts for insurance claims when there is certainty that the claims are realizable and acknowledged by 
insurance company and amount recognized in books of accounts is as under:
 
• 
In case of loss of asset /goods by transferring, either the carrying cost of the relevant asset / goods or insurance value 
(subject to deductibles), whichever is lower under the head “Claims Recoverable-Insurance”. 
 
• 
In case insurance claim is, less than carrying cost the difference is charged to Profit and Loss statement. As and when claims 
are finally received from insurer, the difference, if any, between Claims Recoverable-Insurance and claims received is 
adjusted to Profit and Loss statement.
(y) Events occurring after the Reporting Date
 
Adjusting events (that provides evidence of condition that existed at the balance sheet date) occurring after the balance sheet 
date are recognized in the financial statements. Material non adjusting events (that are inductive of conditions that arose 
subsequent to the balance sheet date) occurring after the balance sheet date that represents material change and commitment 
affecting the financial position are disclosed in the Board’s Report. Further, the shareholders of the Company have the power to  
amend the financial statements after the same has been authorized for issue by Board of Directors as per the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
(z) Exceptional Items
 
Certain occasions, the size, type or incidence of an item of income or expense, pertaining to the ordinary activities of the Group is 
such that its disclosure improves the understanding of the performance of the Company, such income or expense is classified as 
an exceptional item and accordingly, disclosed in the notes accompanying to the financial statements.
(aa) Prior Period Adjustments and Pre-paid Expenses. 
 
Income / expenditure in aggregate pertaining to prior year(s) above the threshold limit are corrected retrospectively. Prepaid 
expenses up to threshold limit in each case, are charged to revenue as and when incurred.
(ab) Rounding off
 
All amounts disclosed / presented in Indian Rupees (INR) in the financial statements and notes have been rounded off to the 
nearest two decimals of Crores as per the requirements of Schedule III, unless otherwise stated.
(ac) Recent accounting pronouncements
 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments to the existing standards under Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. On March 31, 2023, MCA amended the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 by issuing the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023, 
applicable from April 1, 2023, as below:
 
Ind AS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements
 
The amendments require companies to disclose their material accounting policies rather than their significant accounting 
policies. Accounting policy information, together with other information, is material when it can reasonably be expected to 
influence decisions of primary users of general-purpose financial statements. The Company does not expect this amendment to 
have any significant impact in its financial statements.
 
Ind AS 12 – Income Taxes
 
The amendments clarify how companies account for deferred tax on transactions such as leases and decommissioning 
obligations. The amendments narrowed the scope of the recognition exemption in paragraphs 15 and 24 of Ind AS 12 
(recognition exemption) so that it no longer applies to transactions that, on initial recognition, give rise to equal taxable and 
deductible temporary differences. The Company is evaluating the impact, if any, in its financial statements.
 
Ind AS 8 – Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
 
The amendments will help entities to distinguish between accounting policies and accounting estimates. The definition of a 
change in accounting estimates has been replaced with a definition of accounting estimates. Under the new definition, 
accounting estimates are “monetary amounts in financial statements that are subject to measurement uncertainty”. Entities 
develop accounting estimates if accounting policies require items in financial statements to be measured in a way that involves 
measurement uncertainty. The Company does not expect this amendment to have any significant impact in its financial 
statements.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
225
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 3.1PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (PPE) 
 
 
Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) as at  31st March 2023                                                                                               
    (  in Crores)
`
 
As at 1st  
Addition  
Disposal/ 
Other 
As at 31st 
As at 1st  
For the 
Disposal/  
As at 31st 
As at 31st 
As at 31st  
 
April 2022 
 
Adjustment 
Adjustments 
March 2023 
April 2022 
Year 
Adjustment 
March2023 
March 2023 
March 2022
Freehold Land 
 362.99  
 3.25  
 -    
 -    
 366.24  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 366.24  
 362.99
Buildings 
 220.78  
 11.33  
 0.48  
 -    
 231.63  
 33.14  
 4.41  
 0.06  
 37.49  
 194.14  
187.64 
Plant and Equipments 
 7,647.18  
 987.86  
 5.73  
 -    
 8,629.31  
 2,254.50  
 362.64  
 3.23  
 2,613.91   
6,015.40 
 5,392.68 
Furniture and Fixture 
 19.80  
 1.23  
 0.10  
 -    
 20.93  
 12.95  
 1.30  
 0.08  
 14.17  
 6.76  
 6.85 
Computer Equipment 
 45.04  
 6.24  
 0.93  
 -    
 50.35  
 33.57  
 4.38  
 0.86  
 37.09  
 13.26 
 11.47 
Office Equipments 
 22.43  
 1.03  
 0.59  
 -    
 22.87  
 17.82  
 1.39  
 1.21  
 18.00  
 4.87 
 4.61 
Vehicles 
 9.21  
 -    
 0.59  
 -    
 8.62  
 7.69  
 0.34  
 0.56  
 7.47   
1.15  
 1.52 
Books and Periodicals 
 0.10  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 0.10  
 0.10  
 -    
 -    
 0.10  
 -    
 -   
Total PPE 
 8,327.53  
 1,010.94  
 8.42  
 -    
 9,330.05  
 2,359.77  
 374.46  
 6.00  
 2,728.23  
 6,601.82  
 5,967.76
Particulars
Net Block
Freehold Land 
 389.38  
 2.92  
 -    
 (29.31) 
 362.99  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 362.99  
 389.38 
Buildings 
 204.29  
 16.49  
 -    
 -    
 220.78  
 28.97  
 4.14  
 (0.03) 
 33.14  
 187.64  
 175.32 
Plant and Equipments 
 6,825.56  
 825.57  
 3.95  
 -    
 7,647.18  
 1,930.92  
 326.21  
 2.63  
 2,254.50  
5,392.68  
 4,894.64 
Furniture and Fixture 
 19.64  
 0.71  
 0.55  
 -    
 19.80  
 12.14  
 1.32  
 0.51  
 12.95  
 6.85  
 7.50 
Computer Equipment 
 47.23  
 0.94  
 3.13  
 -    
 45.04  
 31.88  
 4.67  
 2.98  
 33.57   
11.47  
 15.35 
Office Equipments 
 21.93  
 1.54  
 1.04  
 -    
 22.43  
 17.47  
 1.33  
 0.98  
 17.82  
4.61  
 4.46 
Vehicles 
 9.05  
 0.26  
 0.10  
 -    
 9.21  
 7.44  
 0.35  
 0.10  
 7.69   
1.52  
 1.61 
Books and Periodicals 
 0.10  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 0.10  
 0.10  
 -    
 -    
 0.10   
-    
 -   
Total PPE 
 7,517.18  
 848.43  
 8.77  
 (29.31) 
 8,327.53  
 2,028.92  
 338.02  
 7.17  
 2,359.77   
5,967.76  
 5,488.26
 
As at 1st  
Addition  
Disposal/ 
Other 
As at 31st 
As at 1st  
For the 
Disposal/  
As at 31st 
As at 31st 
As at 31st 
 
April 2021 
 
Adjustment 
Adjustments 
March 2022 
April 2021 
Year 
Adjustment 
March2022 
March 2022 
March 2021
Particulars
Net Block
Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) as at  31st March 2022 
           (  in Crores)
`
Note 3.1.1 - Impairment of Assets : There is no impairment of any assets in terms of Ind AS - 36  on “Impairment of Assets”.  Based on the review, the management is of the opinion that there 
are no impairment indicators that necessitate any adjustments to the carrying value of PPE.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3.1.2 - The company has not carried out revaluation of PPE. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3.1.3- The company has elected to measure all its PPE at the previous GAAP carrying amount i.e. March 31, 2015 as its deemed cost on the date of transition to Ind AS i.e. April 01, 2015. 
Note 3.1.4 - Security Pledge of Assets : Refer to Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security. 
 
 
 
 
Note 3.1.5 - Refer to note 43 for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment. 
 
 
 
 
Note 3.1.6 - There is no restriction on the title of property, plant and equipments.
Gross Block
Depreciation and Amortization 
Gross Block
Depreciation and Amortization 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
226
 
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023 
Note 3.1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (PPE) (Continued...)
 
As at 1st  
Addition  
Disposal/ 
Other 
As at 1st 
As at 1st  
For the 
Disposal/   
 As at 1st    
As at 1st 
As at 31st  
 
April 2021 
 
Adjustment 
Adjustments 
November 
April 2021 
Year 
Adjustment  
November  
November 
March 2021
 
 
 
 
 
2021 
 
 
  
2021  
2021
Freehold Land 
 1.17  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 1.17  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 1.17  
 1.17 
Plant and Equipments 
 45.43  
 37.55  
 -    
 -    
 82.98  
 3.52  
 1.52  
 -    
 5.04  
 77.94  
 41.91 
Total 
 46.60  
 37.55  
 -    
 -    
 84.15  
 3.52  
 1.52  
 -    
 5.04  
 79.11  
 43.08
Gross Block
Particulars
Depreciation and Amortization 
Net Block
Reason for not being held in the name of the Company
Disputed?
Property 
held since 
which date
Title deeds 
held in the 
name of
Gross 
carrying 
value as 
on 31 
March 
2022
Gross 
carrying 
value as 
on 31 
March 
2023
Description of item 
of property
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Property, 
Plant & 
Equipme
nt - 
Freehold 
Land
Land-Survey No. 306-
A-/1 paiki 3, Post-
Hazira, Taluka Choryasi, 
District-Surat (13,057 
Sq. Mtrs)
Land-Survey No. 150 
Mora village  District-
Surat (13,557 Sq. 
Mtrs)
Survey No. 896 and 
913/2 Vil Ichchhapur 
Hazira 6,559 Sq. Mtrs
` 15.88 
Crores 
` 1/-.
 
` 21.35/- 
Crores
 ` 15.88 
Crores  
` 1/-.
` 21.35/- 
Crores
Government of 
Gujarat
Government of 
Gujarat
Gujarat State 
Petroleum 
Corporation Limited
Promoter
Promoter
Promoter
01-05-1999
05-04-2002
01-04-2006
The legal dispute between the Government and Hazira Apbal Ganotiya Sahakari 
Mandali Ltd.(seller)  regarding transfer or sale of land to private parties (including 
GGL) without necessary permission and breached the condition of utilization of 
land and in one of the order issued by Deputy Collector Choryasi Prant Surat 
dated 7th August 2009 clearly states that there is no breach of condition in case 
of GGL and land owners as Government has given permission to allocate land to 
Gujarat Gas subject to necessary payment of premium etc.
Land belongs to the Government and allotted under Navi sharat to private parties 
(seller) from whom GGL brought the land and later on land was made khalsa on 
18.04.2002. In April 2010, Mamlatdar Office Choryasi had given revised letter to 
submit consent for making the 2.5 times premium of the value to regularize the 
land to Gujarat Gas that may be decided by the District Valuation Committee.
Acquired through demerger scheme and transfer of name yet not completed..
Yes
Yes
No
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter/ director or 
employee of 
promoter/director
Title Deeds of Immovable Properties:
Note 3.1.7 - 'Other Adjustments' in financial year 2021-22 is on account of change in presentation from freehold land to ROU assets (Lease hold land).-Refer note 5.3 
 
 
Note 3.1.8 - Above note 3.1 includes following assets acquired through Business combination transaction in the financial year 2021-22 (Refer note 56): 
 
 
 (  in Crores)
`
Note 3.1.9 - Details of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in favor of the lessee) whose title deeds 
are not held in the name of the Company.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Note 3.2 CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Capital Inventory   
 449.10  
 375.46 
Capital Work-in-Progress (project under construction) 
 508.50  
 590.45 
Total  
 957.60  
 965.91
The Company is engaged in the business of City Gas Distribution (CGD) in India which involves distribution of gas from sources of 
supply to the end user customers. The CGD project is designed considering demand, supply and future requirements based on the 
facilities envisaged for CGD network in authorised areas for 25 years on the basis of authorization from Petroleum and Natural Gas 
Regulatory Board (PNGRB) to lay, build, operate or expand city or local natural gas distribution network. On the basis of demand 
projections, the CGD network is planned. Project execution plans are modulated on the basis of continuous ongoing expansion and all 
the projects are executed and expanded on ongoing basis as per rolling annual plan. Hence, it is considered that there is no project 
whose completion is overdue or has exceed its cost compared to its original plan.
Note 3.2.2 -  Above note 3.2 includes following assets acquired through Business combination transaction in the financial year 
2021-22 (Refer note 56)
`
 
 
 
     (  in Crores)
Note 3.2.1 Ageing Schedule
As on 31 March 2023: 
(  in Crores)
`
As on 31 March 2022: 
(  in Crores)
`
Note:- Security Pledge of Assets : Refer to Note 20 on borrowings for details of security pledge of assets.
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
227
 
                Amount in CWIP for a period of
Capital work in progress 
Less than 
1-2 Years 
2-3 Years 
More than  
Total
 
1 Year 
 
 
3 Years
Projects in Progress 
 730.24  
 155.04  
 33.61  
 35.56  
 954.45 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 0.03  
 0.51  
 0.03  
 2.58  
 3.15 
Total 
 730.27  
 155.55  
 33.64  
 38.14  
 957.60
 
                Amount in CWIP for a period of
Capital work in progress 
Less than 
1-2 Years 
2-3 Years 
More than  
Total
 
1 Year 
 
 
3 Years
Projects in Progress 
 779.54  
 111.81  
 25.96  
 45.11  
 962.42 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 0.02  
 0.00  
 2.17  
 1.29  
 3.49 
Total 
 779.56  
 111.81  
 28.13  
 46.40  
 965.91 
Capital work in progress 
 
 
 
As at 1st 
 
 
 
 
November 2021
Capital Inventory   
 
 
 
 0.14 
Capital Work-in-Progress (project under construction) 
 
 
 
 4.23 
Total  
 
 
 
 4.37 
Note 4 INVESTMENT PROPERTY 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Freehold land  
 
Balance at the beginning of the period 
 1.30  
 1.30 
Add:- Acquisition during the year 
 -    
 -   
Less:- Deletion during the year 
 -    
 -   
Balance at the end of the period 
 1.30  
 1.30
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
228
 
Till Financial Year 2021 – 22, the Company had recognized the rental – facilitation fees on Investment property for the financial 
years 2016-17 and 2017-18 on the basis of provisional working submitted by tenants and for financial year 2018-19, 2019-
20, 2020-21 and 2021-22 on the basis of previous years working, as no further working of rental -facilitation fees was  
submitted by tenants post FY 2017-18. In this regard, the company was contesting the issue of valuation of land for rental – 
facilitation fees with tenant.  During the year, the issue was resolved and hence, the Company has recognized rental – 
facilitation fees of `1.15 Crores till March 31, 2022 being difference between rental – facilitation fees agreed with tenant and 
the fees recognized so far on provisional basis. On similar lines, the Company has recognized rental – facilitation fees of ` 0.46 
Crores for the financial year 2022-23. 
 
(ii)  Contractual Obligations
 
The Company has no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property or for its repair, 
maintenance or enhancements.
(iii)  Leasing Arrangements
 
The investment property is leased to tenant under long term operating leases with rentals payable annually as per the formula 
given in the agreement executed by both the parties. The lease period  is 10 years(extendable as mutually agreed). Either party 
can terminate the agreement by giving 6 months notice(Non cancellable period). The future lease payments receivables can 
not be determined as the amount of rent is dependent on variable lease payment factors.
(i)  
Amount recognised in profit and loss for investment properties 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Rental Income 
 1.61  
 0.20 
Profit from investment properties 
 1.61  
 0.20
(iv) Fair Value 
(  in Crores)
`
 
Estimation of Fair Value 
 
 
The fair value of investment property is based on the valuation by a registered  valuer as defined under rule 2 of Companies 
(Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017.
 
The Company obtains independent valuations for its investment properties once in every three to five years interval. Last fair 
valuation was done on 31st March 2021.
(v)  Security Pledge :  Refer to Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.
(vi)  There is no restriction on the title and realisability of investment property or remittance of income and proceeds of disposals.
Note 4.1 - Details of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements 
 
    are duly executed in favor of the lessee) whose title deeds are not held in the name of the Company.
Title Deeds of Immovable Properties :
As on 31 March 2023:
As on 31 March 2022:
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Investment Properties 
 3.20  
 3.20
Investment 
Property
Nil 
Relevant 
line item in 
the Balance 
sheet
Description of 
item of 
property
Gross 
carrying 
value
as on 31st 
March 2023
Title deeds 
held in the 
name of
Whether title deed holder is 
a promoter, director or 
relative of promoter/ 
director or employee of 
promoter/director
Property 
held since 
which date
Reason for not being 
held in the name of 
the Company
Disputed?
Investment 
Property - 
Freehold 
Land
Survey No. 477 
Village 
Dasarath, 
District-
Vadodara 
2,002 Sq. Mtrs
` 1.30 
Crores
Gujarat 
State 
Petroleum 
Corporation 
Limited
Promoter
01-04-2006
Acquired through 
demerger scheme and 
transfer of name was 
under process.
No
Relevant 
line item in 
the Balance 
sheet
Description of 
item of 
property
Gross 
carrying 
value
as on 31st 
March 2022
Title deeds 
held in the 
name of
Whether title deed holder is a 
promoter, director or relative 
of promoter/ director or 
employee of 
promoter/director
Property 
held since 
which date
Reason for not being 
held in the name of 
the Company
Disputed?
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023  
 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
229
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023 
Note 5.1INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Intangible assets as at 31st March 2023 
                      (  in Crores) 
`
Note 5.1.1. R ight of Way (ROW) Permissions: The useful lives of Right of Way (ROW) Permissions as estimated by the management for the amortization is 30 years. The useful lives of 
ROW Permission are inextricably linked with the pipeline networks being laid, which corresponds with the useful life of 30 years of Plant and Machinery - Pipelines network for 
which the Right of Way (ROW) Permission has been obtained. The Useful life of 30 years of the Right of Way (ROW) Permissions is dependent on the useful life of Plant and 
Machinery - Pipelines i.e. Pipeline network of the company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 5.1.2  R ight of Use (ROU) : The company acquires the ‘Right of Use’ (hereinafter referred to as ‘ROU’) for the purpose of laying and maintenance of the underground pipeline and vests 
in the company and the company has the right to use the same in the manner for which it has been acquired. The acquisition of ROU is governed by the legal process as per the Act, 
the company has paid the compensation /consideration of the ROU -land determined by the competent authority under the Act and any person authorised by the company, 
have unrestricted right of entry and lay pipeline or do any other act necessary for the purpose of laying of pipeline. 
 
The company has disclosed the cost incurred for acquisition of ROU as ‘Right of Use’ in the Intangible Asset schedule. Since the ROU does not have a defined life, it is perpetual in 
nature. Accordingly based on requirements of Ind AS 38 – Intangible Assets, the same is tested for impairment and not amortised. 
 
 
 
Note 5.1.3- I mpairment of Assets : There is no impairment of any assets in terms of Ind AS - 36  on “Impairment of Assets”.  Based on the review, the management is of the opinion that 
there are no impairment indicators that necessitate any adjustments to the carrying value of intangible assets.  
 
 
 
 
Note 5.1.4 - S ecurity Pledge of Assets : Refer to Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.
Note 5.1.5 -  Refer to note 43 for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 5.1.6 -  The company has not carried out revaluation of Intangible assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 5.1.7 - The company has elected to measure all its Intangible assets at the previous GAAP carrying amount i.e. March 31, 2015 as its deemed cost on the date of transition to Ind AS i.e. 
April 01, 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 5.1.8 -  There is no restriction on the title of intangible assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intangible assets as at  31st March 2022 
                     (  in Crores) 
`
ROW Permissions 
 441.45  
 86.58  
 0.91  
 527.12  
 76.26  
 15.68  
 0.24  
 91.70  
 435.42  
 365.19 
ROU  
 14.24  
 0.31  
 -    
 14.55  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 14.55  
14.24 
Software and other Intangibles  
105.26  
 10.48  
 0.01  
 115.73  
 80.77  
 8.78  
 0.01  
 89.54  
 26.19  
24.49 
Total Intangible Assets 
 560.95  
 97.37  
 0.92  
 657.40  
 157.03  
 24.46  
 0.25  
 181.24  
 476.16  
403.92 
ROW Permissions 
 400.91  
 40.54  
 -    
 441.45  
 62.22  
 14.04  
 -    
 76.26  
 365.19  
 338.69 
ROU  
 14.98  
 0.12  
 0.86  
 14.24  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 14.24  
 14.98 
Software and other Intangibles 
97.99  
 8.15  
 0.88  
 105.26  
 73.72  
 7.93  
 0.88  
 80.77  
 24.49  
 24.27
Total Intangible Assets 
 513.88  
 48.81  
 1.74  
 560.95  
 135.94  
 21.97  
 0.88  
 157.03  
 403.92  
 377.94 
 
As at 1st  
Addition  
Disposal/ 
As at 31st 
As at 1st  
For the 
Disposal/  
 As at 31st 
 As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
April 2022 
 
Adjustment 
March2023 
April 2022 
Year 
Adjustment 
March2023 
March 2023 
March 2022
 
As at 1st  
Addition  
Disposal/ 
As at 31st 
As at 1st  
For the 
Disposal/  
 As at 31st 
 As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
April 2021 
 
Adjustment 
March2022 
April 2021 
Year 
Adjustment 
March2022 
March 2022 
March 2021
Particulars
Particulars
Net Block
Net Block
Gross Block
Gross Block
Amortization 
Amortization 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
230
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 5.1 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Continued...)
Note 5.1.9 -  Above note 5.1 includes following assets acquired through Business combination transaction in the financial year 2021-22 (Refer note 56):   
 
 (  in Crores)
`
 
As at 1st  
Addition  
Disposal/ 
As at 1st  
As at 1st  
For the 
Disposal/  
 As at 1st 
 As at 1st 
As at 31st
 
April 2021 
 
Adjustment 
November 2021 
April 2021 
Year 
Adjustment 
November 2021 November 2021 March 2021
ROW Permissions 
 27.68  
 1.73  
 -    
 29.41  
 1.36  
 0.57  
 -    
 1.92  
 27.49  
 26.32 
Total 
 27.68  
 1.73  
 -    
 29.41  
 1.36  
 0.57  
 -    
 1.92  
 27.49  
 26.32 
Gross Block
Particulars
Depreciation and Amortization
Net Block
Projects in Progress 
 13.13  
 3.77  
 5.04  
 2.21  
 24.16 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 -    
 -    
 0.00  
 1.35  
 1.35 
Total 
 13.13  
 3.77  
 5.04  
 3.56  
 25.51 
Projects in Progress 
 11.53  
 10.08  
 1.73  
 0.58  
 23.93 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 -    
 0.00  
 0.86  
 1.60  
 2.46 
Total 
 11.53  
 10.08  
 2.60  
 2.18  
 26.39 
Intangible assets under development
Intangible assets under development
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Total
More than 3 Years
More than 3 Years
2-3 Years
2-3 Years
1-2 Years
1-2 Years
Less than 1 Year
Less than 1 Year
Note 5.2 
INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT 
 (` in Crores) 
Particulars 
 As at 31st March 2023 
As at 31st March 2022
Right of Use (ROU) 
 
 0.01  
 0.06 
Right of Way (ROW) Permissions 
 
 25.50  
 25.86 
SAP SuccessFactors Implementation Project 
 
 -    
 0.47 
Total  
 
 25.51  
 26.39
Note 5.2.1 Ageing Schedule
As on 31 March 2023: 
 
(  in Crores) 
`
As on 31 March 2022: 
 
(  in Crores) 
`
The Company is engaged in the business of City Gas Distribution (CGD) in India which involves distribution of gas from sources of supply to the end user customers. The CGD project is 
designed considering demand, supply and future requirements based on the facilities envisaged for CGD network in authorised areas for 25 years on the basis of authorization from 
Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) to lay, build, operate or expand city or local natural gas distribution network. On the basis of demand projections, the CGD network is 
planned. Project execution plans are modulated on the basis of continuous ongoing expansion and all the projects are executed and expanded on ongoing basis as per rolling annual plan. Hence, 
it is considered that there is no project whose completion is overdue or has exceed its cost compared to its original plan. 
 
 
 
 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
231
Note 5.3.1 - Other adjustment" in financial year 2021-22 includes change from freehold land to ROU assets (Lease hold land) ` 29.31 Crores. Consequent to this, effect of amortisation, 
which is not significant, is given in previous financial year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 5.3.2 - The company has not carried out revaluation of ROU assets.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Right-of-use assets (Leases)  as at 31st March 2022 
 
(  in Crores) 
`
As at 31st 
March 2022
As at 31st 
March 2021
As at 31st 
March 2023
As at 31st 
March 2022
As at 31st 
March 2023
As at 31st 
March 2022
 Disposal/ 
Termination
Adjustment
 Disposal/ 
Termination
Adjustment
Disposal/ 
Termination 
Adjustment
Disposal/ 
Termination 
Adjustment
Additions
Additions
As at 1st 
April 2022
As at 1st 
April 2021
For the year
For the year
As at 1st 
April 2022
As at 1st 
April 2021
As at 31st 
March 2023
As at 31st 
March 2022
Other 
Adjustments/ 
Reassessment
Other 
Adjustments/ 
Reassessment
Other 
Adjustments/ 
Reassessment
Other 
Adjustments/ 
Reassessment
Land 
 157.09  
 9.31  
 2.42  
 0.04  
 164.02  
 12.29  
 4.46  
 0.12  
 -    
 16.63  
 147.39  
 144.80 
Buildings 
 6.84  
 3.85  
 2.96  
 -    
 7.73  
 3.54  
 1.69  
 1.97  
 -    
 3.26  
 4.47  
 3.30 
Plant and Equipments 
 31.31  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 31.31  
 5.98  
 2.09  
 -    
 -    
 8.07  
 23.24  
 25.33 
Vehicles 
 94.89  
 20.58  
 1.78  
 -    
 113.69  
 10.10  
 21.10  
 0.80  
 -    
 30.40  
 83.29  
 84.79 
Total 
 290.13  
 33.74  
 7.16  
 0.04  
 316.75  
 31.91  
 29.34  
 2.89  
 -    
 58.36  
 258.39  
 258.22 
Land 
 124.15  
 3.62  
 0.33  
 29.65  
 157.09  
 6.29  
 5.87  
 0.20  
 0.33  
 12.29  
 144.80  
 117.86 
Buildings 
 7.24  
 -    
 0.40  
 -    
 6.84  
 2.53  
 1.36  
 0.35  
 -    
 3.54  
 3.30  
 4.71 
Plant and Equipments 
 31.31  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 31.31  
 3.89  
 2.09  
 -    
 -    
 5.98  
 25.33  
 27.42 
Vehicles 
 26.21  
 77.56  
 8.88  
 -    
 94.89  
 3.38  
 15.60  
 8.88  
 -    
 10.10  
 84.79  
 22.83 
Total 
 188.91  
 81.18  
 9.61  
 29.65  
 290.13  
 16.09  
 24.92  
 9.43  
 0.33  
 31.91  
 258.22  
 172.82
Gross Block
Gross Block
Particulars
Particulars
Amortization 
Amortization 
Net Block
Net Block
 
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023 
Right-of-use assets (Leases) as at 31st March 2023 
 
(` in Crores)
Note 5.3 RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
232
Note 5.3 RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (continued…..)
Title Deeds of Immovable Properties:
As on 31 March 2023:
As on 31 March 2022:
Note 5.3.3 - Details of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in favor of the lessee) whose title 
deeds are not held in the name of the Company.
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Right of use 
Assets (Leases)
Nil 
Relevant line 
item in the 
Balance sheet
Description of item 
of property
Gross carrying 
value
as on 31st 
March 2023
Title deeds held 
in the name of
Whether title deed holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of promoter/ director or 
employee of promoter/director
Property held since 
which date
Reason for not being held in the 
name of the Company
Disputed?
Right-of-use 
assets (Leases)-
Land
Indian Red Cross 
Society, District 
branch, Bhathinda
Survey no - 593 
Village Sivian HB no. 
72 Tehsil and District 
Bhathinda
Revenue Survey no. 
Khasra no. 51/4, 51/5, 
51/6 and 51/7, Village 
- Fatehpur Rajputana, 
Tehsil Amritsar-1, 
District - Amritsar
` 3.45 Crores
` 0.81 Crores
`  1.60 Crores
Gujarat State 
Petronet 
Limited
Promoter
Business transfer 
agreement effective 
from 01.11.2021. 
(Refer Note 56)
Acquired through business transfer 
agreement effective from 
01.11.2021. 
Transfer of name was under 
process.
No
Relevant line 
item in the 
Balance sheet
Description of item 
of property
Gross carrying 
value
as on 31st 
March 2022
Title deeds held 
in the name of
Whether title deed holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of promoter/ director or 
employee of promoter/director
Property held since 
which date
Reason for not being held in the 
name of the Company
Disputed?
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
233
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023 
 Note 6  NON- CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : INVESTMENT IN  EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEE  
(  in Crores)
`
Note 7   NON- CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : INVESTMENTS  
(  in Crores)
`
Figures INR 0.00 denotes amount less than INR 50,000/-
OTHER INFORMATION 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Investments in equity shares accounted through OCI (fully paid) 
 
Unquoted Equity Shares 
 
2,00,00,000 (Previous year: 2,00,00,000) Fully Paid Up Equity Shares of ` 1 each of  
 30.38  
 22.36 
Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited  
200 (Previous year: 200) Fully Paid Up Equity Shares of ` 25 each of Kalupur  
0.00 
0.00
Co Op Comm Bank Limited [` 5000 (Previous year ` 5000)]
Total 
 30.38  
 22.36 
(a) Aggregate amount of quoted investments and market value thereof; 
 
 Nil  
 Nil 
(b) Aggregate amount of unquoted investments; and 
 
 30.38  
 22.36 
(c) Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments. 
 
 Nil  
 Nil
Note 8  NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : LOANS 
(  in Crores)
`
Refer Note no. 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 Loan to Employees [Unsecured, considered good]  
 2.74  
 3.56 
Total 
 2.74  
 3.56
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements 
Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security. 
Refer Note 51 for Loans to Promoters, Directors, KMPs and Related parties 
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Investments in equity shares carried at cost (fully paid)
Unquoted Equity Shares 
 
25000 (Previous year: 25,000) Fully Paid up Equity Shares of `10  
 0.03  
 0.03 
each of Guj Info Petro Limited
Add: Share of profit  
 32.34  
 29.64 
Total 
 32.37  
 29.67 
 Extent of Holding  
49.94% 
49.94%
 Place of business/ country of incorporation  
 India  
 India 
Other information:- 
 
(a)  Aggregate amount of quoted investments and market value thereof; 
 Nil  
 Nil 
(b)  Aggregate amount of unquoted investments; and 
 32.37  
 29.67 
(c)  Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments. 
 Nil  
 Nil
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
234
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023 
Note 11  INVENTORIES  
(  in Crores)
`
 For Valuation- Refer note 2(l)   
 
 Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.  
 
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Natural Gas  
 16.92  
 14.16 
Stores and spares  
 41.37  
 39.23 
Deferred delivery-Natural Gas (Goods in transit)  
 2.89  
 -   
Total 
 61.18  
 53.39 
Note 10  OTHER NON- CURRENT ASSETS  
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Capital advances 
 
 
Capital advances [Unsecured, considered good] 
 123.87  
 142.54 
 
Capital advances [Credit Impaired] 
 2.78  
 3.63 
 
 
 126.65  
 146.17 
 
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful 
 (2.78) 
 (3.63)
 Total  
 123.87  
 142.54 
Advance against expenses 
 
 
Other advances - [Unsecured, considered good] 
 0.07  
 1.30 
Advance payment of income tax [Net of provisions] 
42.70  
 45.26 
(Refer Note 30) 
 
Prepaid Expenses 
 128.35  
 109.26 
Balances with Government authorities for Litigations 
 18.49  
 18.11 
Balances with Government authorities - VAT credit refundable 
 148.40  
 117.57 
Deferred employee benefit cost 
 2.14  
 2.87 
Other non-current assets 
 0.03  
 0.03 
Total 
464.05  
 436.94 
Refer Note 48 for Related party balances 
 
Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.
 Note 9  NON- CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : OTHERS  
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 Security Deposits (Refer Note 9.1)  
 
 
To Related Parties [Unsecured, considered good]  
 104.25  
 79.96 
 
To Others [Unsecured, considered good]  
 75.16  
 64.04 
 
To Others [Credit impaired]  
 10.43  
 11.78 
 
  
189.84  
 155.78 
 
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful  
 (10.43) 
 (11.78)
 
Less :Security Deposits adjustment for amortised cost  
 (81.88) 
 (63.27)
 Total Security Deposits  
 97.53  
 80.73 
 Receivable from employee [Unsecured, considered good]  
 0.39  
 0.54 
 Other Receivable [Considered Doubtful]  
 0.36  
 0.36 
 
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful  
 (0.36) 
 (0.36)
Total 
 97.92  
 81.27
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements 
Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security. 
Note no. 9.1:The Company has given refundable security deposits in form of fixed bank deposits to various project authorities to be 
held in their name and custody. It will be refunded after satisfactory completion of work. The company has therefore shown these 
fixed bank deposits amounting ` 51.09 Crores  (Previous Year ` 38.66 Crores) and interest accrued on such fixed bank deposits 
`  8.62 Crores (Previous Year  ` 7.81 Crores), till they are in custody with project authorities as “Security Deposits” under the Note - 
“Non- Current Financial Assets : Others” in the balance sheet.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
235
Note 12.1   Trade Receivable ageing schedule:
As on 31 March 2023: 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars
Outstanding for following period from due date of payment
Total
More than 
3 years
2-3 years
1-2 years
6 months- 
1 year
Less than 
6 months
Not Due
Unbilled
(I)  Undisputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
 796.93  
 75.06  
 3.85  
 1.14  
 0.34  
 0.78  
 878.10
Considered good 
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables  - which  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 -
have significant increase in credit risk   
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables  - 
 -    
 3.32  
 3.75  
 2.77  
 1.24  
 0.40  
 1.26  
 12.74
 Credit Impaired 
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
 0.05  
 3.30  
 0.85  
 1.05  
 0.80  
 2.96  
 9.01
Considered Good 
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables  -  
 - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
which have significant increase in credit risk 
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
 -    
 0.36  
 1.07  
 1.23  
 0.77  
 3.57  
 7.00
Credit Impaired 
 
(vii) Unbilled 
 134.04  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
134.04 
Total 
 134.04  
 800.30  
 82.47  
 8.54  
 4.66  
 2.31  
 8.57  
 1,040.89 
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(viii)  Allowance for doubtful -  
- 
 (3.32) 
 (3.75) 
 (2.77) 
 (1.24) 
 (0.40) 
 (1.26) 
 (12.74)
Undisputed Trade receivables
(ix)  Allowance for doubtful - Disputed 
- 
 -    
 (0.36) 
 (1.07) 
 (1.23) 
 (0.77) 
 (3.57) 
 (7.00)
Trade receivables
Net Trade Receivables 
 134.04  
 796.98  
 78.36  
 4.70  
 2.19  
 1.14  
 3.74  
 1,021.15
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023 
Note 12  CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : TRADE RECEIVABLES  
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Trade Receivables (A) 
 
 
 
 
Trade Receivables considered good - Secured 
 245.56  
 271.80  
 
Trade Receivables considered good - Unsecured (Backed by Bank guarantee) 
 485.08  
 430.07  
 
Trade Receivables considered good - Unsecured (Others)  
 156.47  
 153.88  
 
Trade Receivables - credit impaired 
 19.74  
 13.64  
 
Total  
 906.85  
 869.39  
 
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful 
 19.74  
 13.64  
  
Total (A)  
 887.11 
 855.75  
Unbilled Revenue (B) 
 134.04  
 74.30  
Total (A+B) 
 1,021.15  
 930.05
 Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements  
 Refer Note 48 for Related party balances  
 Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.  
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
236
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Particulars
Outstanding for following period from due date of payment
Total
More than 
3 years
2-3 years
1-2 years
6 months- 
1 year
Less than 
6 months
Not Due
Unbilled
(i) Undisputed Trade Receivables  - 
 -    
 739.39  
 102.54  
 5.14  
 2.08  
 0.62  
 1.22  
 850.97
Considered good 
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -
which have significant increase in credit risk   
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
 1.50  
 2.79  
 1.14  
 0.95  
 0.35  
 1.92  
 8.65 
Credit Impaired
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables  - 
 -    
 0.05  
 0.93  
 0.30  
 0.56  
 0.54  
 2.39  
 4.77 
 Considered Good
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -
which have significant increase in credit risk   
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables  -  
 -    
 0.00  
 0.20  
 0.35  
 0.68  
 0.61  
 3.14  
 4.99 
Credit Impaired 
(vii) Unbilled 
 74.30  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 74.30 
Total 
 74.30  
 740.93  
 106.46  
 6.93  
 4.27  
 2.13  
 8.67  
 943.69 
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(viii)  Allowance for doubtful -  
 -    
 (1.50) 
 (2.79) 
 (1.14) 
 (0.95) 
 (0.35) 
 (1.92) 
 (8.65)
Undisputed Trade receivables
(ix)  Allowance for doubtful -  
 -    
 (0.00) 
 (0.20) 
 (0.35) 
 (0.68) 
 (0.61) 
 (3.14) 
 (4.99)
Disputed Trade receivables
Net Trade Receivables 
 74.30  
 739.43  
 103.47  
 5.44  
 2.63  
 1.17  
 3.61  
 930.05
Note 12.1   Trade Receivable ageing schedule( continued…..): 
 
As on 31 March 2022: 
(  in Crores)
`
Note 13   CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS  
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022 
 (a) Balance with banks  
 
 
Balance in bank account [with Sweep -In deposit facility]   
 48.52  
 18.17 
(b) Balance with financial Institutions  
 
 
Deposits with original maturity of three months or less 
 
 
      Intercorporate deposits/ Liquid deposits with Gujarat State Financial Services Ltd 
 624.76  
 -   
 (c) Cash on hand  
 1.42  
 1.61 
Total 
 674.70  
 19.78 
Note 14 CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : OTHER BANK BALANCES   
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Earmarked balances in unclaimed dividend accounts (Refer Note 14.1) 
 1.35  
 1.52 
Earmarked balances in CSR account 
 4.91  
 -   
Margin money or security against borrowings & guarantees 
 0.02  
 0.02 
Total 
 6.28  
 1.54 
Note 14.1 : The balances in dividend accounts are not available for use by the Company and the money remaining unpaid will be 
deposited in the Investor Protection and Education Fund after the expiry of 7 years from the date they became due for payment. No 
amount is due at the end of the period for credit to Investor Protection and Education fund. 
 
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements 
 
Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.
  Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements   
  Refer Note 48 for Related party balances   
  Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
237
Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security. 
 
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements 
 
Refer Note 51 for Loans to Promoters, Directors, KMPs and Related parties
 Note 16  CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : OTHERS 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 Other Bank Balances  
 -    
 2.22 
 Unbilled Receivables-Other Income  
 0.46  
 0.99 
 Insurance claim receivable  
 0.07  
 0.05 
 Staff - Employee Advance  
 0.02  
 -   
 Receivable from employees  
 0.32  
 0.65 
 Other receivables [Unsecured, considered good]:-  
 
 
From Related parties  
 0.49  
 6.25 
 
From Others  
 8.50  
 8.86 
Total 
 9.86  
 19.02 
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023 
 Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.  
 Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements  
 Refer Note 48 for Related party balances  
 Note 17  CURRENT ASSETS : OTHERS  
(` in Crores)
 Refer Note 20 on borrowings for details in terms of pledge of assets as security.  
 Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements  
 Refer Note 48 for Related party balances  
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 Advances for expenses  
 
  
To Related parties [Unsecured, considered good]  
 15.62  
 -   
  
To Others [Unsecured, considered good]  
 10.56  
 10.79 
  
Advances for expenses[Credit Impaired]  
 0.13  
 -   
 
  
26.31  
 10.79 
  
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful  
 (0.13) 
 -   
  
                                                                                                                                   Total  
 26.18  
 10.79 
 Prepaid Expenses  
 30.62  
 27.78 
 Prepaid Expenses-CSR  
 0.28  
 -   
 Indirect Tax credit receivable (Excise, VAT, GST etc.)   
 23.34  
 29.18 
 Balances with Government authorities - VAT credit refundable  
 120.06  
 292.46 
 Deferred employee benefit cost  
 1.70  
 3.13 
Total 
 202.18  
 363.34 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 15    CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS : LOANS  
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 Loans to employees [Unsecured, considered good]  
 3.84  
 2.91 
Total 
 3.84  
 2.91
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
238
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 18.3 
 
 
 
 
Terms/ rights attached to equity shares 
 
 
 
The company has only one class of equity shares having a face value of
 2 per share (previous year  2 each). Each holder of equity 
  `
 `
shares is entitled to one vote per share. The company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees. The dividend proposed by the 
Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
In the event of liquidation of the company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive residual assets of the company. The 
distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders. 
 
Note 18.4 
 
 
 
 
Share holding by prescribed entities 
 
 
 
Out of Equity shares issued by the company, shares held by its holding company and their subsidiaries and associates are as under: 
Note 18.2 Reconciliation of shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period 
(  in Crores) 
`
(  in Crores) 
`
 
 
No. of Shares 
 Amount   
No. of Shares 
 Amount 
 
 
 
Equity Shares of ` 2 each  
Equity Shares of ` 2 each
 
 
fully paid 
 
fully paid
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the period 
 68,83,90,125  
 137.68  
 68,83,90,125  
 137.68 
Add: Shares issued during the period  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
Less: Changes during the period   
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
Shares outstanding at the end of the period 
 68,83,90,125  
 137.68  
 68,83,90,125  
 137.68
Particulars 
As at 31st March 2023 
  As at 31st March 2022
Note 18 :  SHARE CAPITAL
Note 18.1 
 
 
 
Authorised, issued, subscribed, fully paid up share capital 
 
 
 (  in Crores)
`
 
 
 
 
No. of shares 
Amount 
No. of shares 
Amount
Authorised 
 
 
 
 
 
Equity Shares of ` 2 each 
 8,67,55,00,000   1,735.10   8,67,55,00,000   1,735.10 
7.5% Redeemable preference Shares of ` 10 each 
1,70,00,000  
 17.00  
 1,70,00,000  
 17.00 
Preference shares of ` 10 each 
 50,00,000  
 5.00  
 50,00,000 
 5.00 
 
Issued, Subscribed and Paid up 
 
 
 
 
 
Equity Shares of ` 2 each (fully paid-up) 
 68,83,90,125  
 137.68   68,83,90,125  
 137.68 
Total  
68,83,90,125  
 137.68   68,83,90,125  
 137.68
 
 
 
 
No. of Equity  
Amount 
No. of Equity 
Amount
 
 
 
 
Shares of ` 2 
 
Shares of ` 2
 
 
 
 
 
 each fully paid 
 each fully paid
(i) 
Gujarat State Petronet Limited (current year :-  
  37,28,73,995  
 74.57   37,28,73,995  
 74.57
 
Holding Company and previous year :- Holding Company) 
(ii)  Gujarat State Energy Generation Limited  (current year :-   
13,32,235  
 0.27  
 13,32,235  
 0.27 
 
Associate of  ultimate Holding Company and previous year :-  
 
Associate of  Intermediate Holding Company) 
 
 
(iii)  Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited  
 
 -    
 -    
 4,69,14,475  
 9.38 
 
(current year :-NA and previous year :- Associate of  
 
Ultimate Holding Company)* 
 
 
(iv)  Gujarat Alkalies & Chemicals Limited (current year :- 
  
-    
 -    
 2,13,15,785  
 4.26 
 
NA and previous year :- Associate of  Ultimate Holding 
 
Company)* 
 
 
(v)  Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilizers & Chemicals Limited  
 -    
 -    
 2,66,445  
 0.05
 
(current year :-NA and previous year :- Associate of
  
Ultimate Holding Company)* 
 
 
Particulars 
 
As at 31st March 2023 
As at 31st March 2022
Share Holder (Nature of Relationship) 
 
As at 31st March 2023 
As at 31st March 2022
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
239
Note 18.5 
 
Shareholders holding more than 5 % of total share capital
Note 18.6 
 
Disclosures of Shareholding of Promoters - Shares held by the Promoters:
 
 
No. of Shares 
% of Holding 
No. of Shares 
% of Holding
 
 
Equity Shares of ` 2 each 
 
Equity Shares of ` 2 each
 
 
fully paid 
 
fully paid
Gujarat State Petronet Limited 
 37,28,73,995  
54.17% 
 37,28,73,995  
54.17%
Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited 
 4,69,14,475  
6.82% 
 4,69,14,475  
6.82%
Government of Gujarat 
 4,49,77,310  
6.53% 
 4,49,77,310  
6.53%
Gujarat State Petroleum  
Equity 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 -    
Corporation Limited 
Gujarat State Petronet Limited Equity 
 37,28,73,995  
54.17% 
 37,28,73,995  
54.17% 
0.00%
Government of Gujarat 
Equity 
 4,49,77,310  
6.53% 
 4,49,77,310  
6.53% 
0.00%
Gujarat State Energy  
Equity 
 13,32,235  
0.19% 
 13,32,235  
0.19% 
0.00%
Generation Limited  
Total 
 
 41,91,83,540  
60.89% 
 41,91,83,540  
60.89%
Name of Shareholders 
As at 31st March 2023 
  As at 31st March 2022
Promoter name
Class of 
Shares
% Change 
during the 
year
As at 31st March 2023 
No. of Shares
% of total 
shares
As at 31st March 2022 
No. of Shares
% of total 
shares
*During the financial year 2022-23, there has been change in shareholding of Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited (GSPC) 
in lieu of which Gujarat State Investment Limited (GSIL) ceased to be holding company of GSPC w.e.f 19th October 2022.  
Consequently, GSIL has ceased to be Ultimate Holding company of Gujarat Gas Limited and GSPC has become ultimate 
holding company of Gujarat Gas Limited . Accordingly, equity shares held by Assocites of GSIL is not required to disclose as at 
31st March 2023
Note 18.7 
 
 
 
 
Details of Bought back of shares, Bonus Shares and Shares issue without payment being received in Cash: 
 
The company has not bought back any equity shares, has not allotted any shares as fully paid up pursuant to contracts without 
payment being received in cash and has not allotted bonus shares during the period of five years immediately preceding the date of 
balance sheet. Further, there are no shares which are reserved for issue under options and contracts or commitments for the sale of 
shares or disinvestment. 
 
 
 
Note 18.8 
 
 
 
 
Proposed Dividend: 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors, in its meeting on 10th May, 2023, have proposed a final dividend of ` 6.65 per equity share (Face value of
` 2/- each) for the financial year ended on 31st March,2023. The proposal is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting and, if approved, would result in a cash outflow of ` 457.78 crores. 
 
 
The Board of Directors, in its meeting on 10th May, 2022, had proposed a final dividend of ` 2.00 per equity share (Face value of ` 2/- 
each) for the financial year ended on 31st March,2022.The proposal was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 
and this resulted in a cash outflow of  ` 137.68 crores. 
 
 
 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
240
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note-19 OTHER EQUITY 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 
As at
 
  
31st March 2023 31st March 2022
(A) Reserves & Surplus 
 
  
 
General Reserve 
 
  
 
 
Opening Balance 
 2.72  
 2.72 
 
Add/Less : Adjustment during the year 
 -    
 -   
 
Closing Balance 
 2.72  
 2.72 
Amalgamation and arrangement Reserve 
 
  
 
Opening Balance 
 879.59  
 879.59 
 
Add/Less : Adjustment during the year 
-    
 -   
 
Closing Balance 
 879.59  
 879.59 
Capital Reserve  (Refer note 56) 
 
  
 
 
Opening Balance 
 (23.98) 
 (23.98)
 
Add/Less : Adjustment during the year  
-    
 -   
 
Closing Balance 
 (23.98) 
 (23.98)
Retained Earnings 
 
Opening balance 
 4,741.55  
 3,591.30 
 
Add: Profit during the year 
 1,528.38  
 1,287.37 
 
Remeasurement of post employment benefit obligation (net of tax) 
 2.14  
 0.56 
 
Total 
6,272.07  
 4,879.23
Less : Appropriations
 
Distribution of ESOP trust fund 
 (1.04) 
 -   
 
Dividend 
 (137.68) 
 (137.68)
 
Closing Balance 
 6,133.35  
 4,741.55 
Total (A) 
 6,991.68  
 5,599.88  
 
(B) Equity instrument through OCI 
 
 
Opening Balance 
 (107.63) 
 (109.75)
 
Add/Less : Change in fair value of equity instrument   
 8.02  
 2.62 
 
Add/Less : Income tax relating to above item 
 (1.80) 
 (0.50)
Closing Balance (B) 
 (101.41) 
 (107.63)  
 
Total other equity (A+B) 
 6,890.27  
 5,492.25
Nature and purpose of reserves : 
 
 
 
General reserve 
 
 
 
The general reserve is used from time to time to transfer profits from retained earnings for appropriation purpose. As the general 
reserve is created by transfer from one component of equity to another and is not an item of other comprehensive income, items 
included in the general reserve will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss.   
 
Amalgamation and Arrangement Reserve 
 
 
 
The "Amalgamation and Arrangement Reserve", created pursuant to scheme of amalgamation and arrangement, is treated as free 
reserve based on the judgment of Honourable Gujarat High Court dated 18th April 2015 read with relevant other court decisions. 
Retained Earnings 
 
 
 
Retained earnings represents surplus / accumulated earnings of the company available for distribution to shareholders. 
Capital Reserve 
 
 
 
Capital Reserve not available for distribution of dividend and expected to remain invested permanently. 
Negative capital reserve represents difference between the consideration and carrying amount of net assets/liabilities acquired as 
per business transfer agreement for transactions among entities under common control. 
 
Equity instrument through OCI 
 
 
 
The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other comprehensive 
income. These changes are accumulated within the Equity instrument through OCI reserve within equity. 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
241
Note 20.1   Term Loan from Banks 
 (  in Crores) 
`
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Current 
Current 
Non-Current 
Current
From banks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     HDFC Bank Term Loan II # 
NA (for Previous year: Quarterly   
NA 
 
NA 
 -    
 -    
 390.97  
 86.95
  
Installment from March 2021 to 
 
September 2027)
Total 
 
 
 
 
 -    
 -    
 390.97  
 86.95 
Terms of repayment
Name of Lender
Current 
Interest Rate $
As at 31st March 2023
As at 31st March 2022
Maturity
#  During this financial year 2022-23, Company made pre-payment of term loans (HDFC Bank Term Loan II) of ` 446.60 Crores out of internal accruals of the company. 
$  Interest rate is as on balance sheet date and interest on borrowing is payable on monthly basis. 
 
 Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value measurements.
Note 20.2 : The Company has obtained various borrowings from banks on basis of above security wherein submission of the quarterly returns/ statements of current assets is not required as 
per sanction letter. 
 
 
 
Secured 
Borrowings 
Guarantee by 
Directors or others
Loan from related 
party 
Type of Loan 
As at 31st March 2023 
 
    As at 31st March 2022
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
For HDFC Bank RTL II:
A first ranking pari passu charge over movable fixed assets (both present and future) of the Borrower 
(except any ROU, ROW, any immovable fixed assets, lease assets and all other assets which are not 
permitted to be transferred in the name of the Borrower and/or creation of charge is not permissible in 
favor of the Bank). 
None of the loan has been guaranteed by the directors or others 
 
 
None of the loan has been taken from the related party(ies) 
 
 
Note 20 NON- CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES: BORROWINGS 
(  in Crores)
`
 
 
 
Non-Current 
Current* 
Non-Current 
Current*
Term Loan from Banks (Refer Note 20.1) 
 -    
 -    
 390.97  
 86.95 
Total secured borrowings 
 -    
 -    
 390.97  
 86.95
Secured borrowings 
 
As at 31st March 2023 
  As at 31st March 2022
*For current maturities of long term borrowing amount disclosed under the head "Current Financial Liabilities: Borrowings" (Note 25) 
The Company does not have any defaults in repayment of loans and interest as at the reporting date. 
 
The details of security given for all loans  are as under : 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
242
Note 22 NON-CURRENT PROVISIONS 
(  in Crores)
`
Note 23 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (Net) 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
    As at 31st
 
 
 March 2023 
March 2022
Provision for employee benefits (Refer note 47) 
 
 
 
 
Provision for Long service benefits 
 0.98  
 0.93 
 
Provision for leave encashment 
 54.02  
 52.75 
 
Provision for Superannuation 
 -    
 0.10 
Total 
 55.00  
 53.78 
Particulars 
As at 31st 
    As at 31st  
 
 
 March 2023 
March 2022
A.  Deferred tax Liabilities  
 
 
 
  
Tax effect of items constituting :  
 
 
 
 
 
Property, plant and equipment & Intangible assets 
 909.08  
 858.81 
 
 
Investments 
 6.19  
 4.39 
 
 
Total - A 
 915.27  
 863.20 
B.  Deferred tax asset 
 
 
 
  
Tax effect of items constituting :  
 
 
 
 
 
Employee benefits 
 14.26  
 14.90 
 
 
Provisions 
 30.57  
 18.14 
 
 
Other items* 
 24.34  
 22.44 
 
 
Total - B 
 69.17  
 55.48 
Deferred tax Liabilities (Net) (A-B) 
 846.10  
 807.72 
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 21 LEASE LIABILITIES 
(  in Crores)
`
 
 
 
Non-Current 
Current 
Non-Current 
Current
Lease Liabilities (Refer note 50) 
 
 
 123.93  
 28.39  
 125.33  
 22.45 
Total 
 
 
 123.93  
 28.39  
 125.33  
 22.45
Particulars 
 
As at 31st March 2023 
  As at 31st March 2022
(a) Deferred tax balances and movement for FY 2022-23 
 (  in Crores)
`
As at
1st April 
2022
Recognised in profit or loss
Restatement
Others
Recognised
in OCI
Other 
Adjustments/ 
Capital reserve
As at
31st March 
2023
Particulars
Deferred tax Liabilities - Tax 
effect of items constituting :- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property, plant and equipment &  
 858.81  
 
 50.27  
 -    
 -    
 909.08 
 
Intangible assets
 
Investments 
 4.39  
 
 -    
 1.80  
 -    
 6.19 
 
                                               Total 
 863.20  
 -    
 50.27  
 1.80  
 -    
 915.27 
Deferred tax asset - Tax effect 
of items constituting :- 
 
Employee benefits 
 14.90  
 
 0.14  
 (0.77) 
 
 14.26 
 
Provisions 
 18.14  
 
 12.43  
 -    
 
 30.57 
 
Other items 
 22.44  
 
 1.90  
 -    
 
 24.34 
                                                    Total 
 55.48  
 -    
 14.47  
 (0.77) 
 -    
 69.17 
Net deferred tax Liabilities 
 807.72  
 -    
 35.80  
 2.57  
 -    
 846.10 
*Other items includes effects of Leases (IND AS 116), Deferred revenue (IND AS115), financial instruments measurement etc. 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
243
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
As at
1st April 
2021
Recognised in profit or loss
Restatement
Others
Recognised 
in OCI
Other 
Adjustments/
Capital 
reserve
As at
31st March 
2022
Particulars
Deferred tax Liabilities - 
Tax effect of items constituting -  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property, plant and equipment &  
 834.34  
 
 24.47  
 -    
 -    
 858.81 
 
Intangible assets
 
Investments 
 3.90  
 
 -    
 0.50  
 -    
 4.39 
                                                   Total 
 838.24  
 -    
 24.47  
 0.50  
 -    
 863.20 
Deferred tax asset - Tax 
effect of items constituting -  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employee benefits 
 13.28  
 
 1.81  
 (0.19) 
 -    
 14.90 
 
Provisions 
 12.67  
 
 5.47  
 -    
 -    
 18.14 
 
Other items 
 19.77  
 
 2.67  
 -    
 -    
 22.44 
                                                  Total 
 45.72  
 -    
 9.95  
 (0.19) 
 -    
 55.48 
Restatement of Previous year 
-    
 (2.77) 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 ( Refer Note 56)* 
 
Net deferred tax Liabilities 
 792.52  
 (2.77) 
 14.52  
 0.69  
 -    
 807.72
Particulars 
As at 31st March 2023  
 Expiry date   As at 31st March 2022 Expiry date 
Expire  
 Nil  
 NA  
 Nil  
 NA 
Never Expire 
 Nil  
 NA  
 Nil  
 NA
* Refer Note 56 for deferred tax asset created on account of business combination transactions 
 
Notes:   
 
 
 
 
The company offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and current 
tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.  
Significant management judgment is required in determining provision for income tax, deferred income tax assets and liabilities and 
recoverability of deferred income tax assets. The recoverability of deferred income tax assets is based on estimates of taxable 
income by each jurisdiction in which the relevant entity operates and the period over which deferred income tax assets will be 
recovered.
(c) Tax losses carried forward
Note 23 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (Net)- Continued….. 
 
(b) Deferred tax balances and movement for FY 2021-22 
(  in Crores)
`
 Note 24  OTHERS NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES   
(` in Crores)
 Note 25  CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES : BORROWING   
(` in Crores)
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Deferred Revenue ( Refer Note 49) 
 71.08  
 68.83 
Total 
 71.08  
 68.83 
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 Current maturities of long term borrowings -  (Refer Note 20):- 
 
 
 Term Loan  
 
 
 
 -From Banks (Secured)  
 -    
 86.95 
 Total (A)  
 -    
 86.95 
 
 
 
Loans Repayable on demand (Unsecured) 
 
 
 
 -From Banks (Bank Overdraft)  
 -    
 3.15 
 Total (B)  
 -    
 3.15 
 Total (A+B)  
 -    
 90.10
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
244
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023 
Note 26   CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES : TRADE PAYABLES 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
 
 March 2023 
  March 2022 
A. 
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises -
 
Trade payables others (Refer Note 44) 
 18.50  
21.36  
B. 
(i) 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
 
 
small enterprises:-
 
 
Trade payables - Gas Purchase /  Transmission 
 515.16  
 292.63  
 
 
Trade payables - Others 
 60.63  
 32.69  
 
 
 
575.79 
 325.32  
        (ii) 
Unbilled dues 
 121.29  
 100.37  
 
Subtotal (i+ii)  
 697.08  
 425.69 
Total (A+B)  
 715.58  
 447.05
 Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements  
 
 
 Refer Note 48 for Related party balances  
 
 
 
Particulars
Unbilled
(i) MSME 
 -    
 18.13  
 0.37  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 18.50 
(ii) Others 
 -    
 558.01  
 13.74  
 0.32  
 0.08  
 0.27  
 572.42 
(iii) Disputed dues - MSME 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
(iv) Disputed dues -Others 
 -    
 2.15  
 0.03  
 0.48  
 0.06  
 0.65  
 3.37 
(v) Unbilled 
 121.29  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 121.29 
Total 
 121.29  
 578.29  
 14.14  
 0.80  
 0.14  
 0.92  
 715.58 
Outstanding for following period from due date of payment
Not Due
Less than 
1 Year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
Particulars
Unbilled
(i) MSME 
 -    
 21.07  
 0.29  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 21.36 
(ii) Others 
 -    
 317.77  
 4.53  
 0.09  
 0.11  
 0.54  
 323.05 
(iii) Disputed dues - MSME 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
(iv) Disputed dues -Others 
 -    
 1.48  
 -    
 -    
 0.12  
 0.66  
 2.26 
(v) Unbilled 
 100.37  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 100.37 
Total 
 100.37  
 340.33  
 4.83  
 0.09  
 0.23  
 1.20  
 447.05
Outstanding for following period from due date of payment
Not Due
Less than 
1 Year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
Note 26.1 - Trade Payable ageing schedule: 
As on 31 March 2023: 
(  in Crores)
`
As on 31 March 2022: 
(  in Crores)
`
The Company does not have any defaults in repayment of loans and interest as at the reporting date. 
The Company has obtained unsecured working capital Overdraft facilities wherein submission of the quarterly returns/ statements 
of current assets is not applicable. 
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
245
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023 
 Note 27  CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES : OTHERS  
(` in Crores)
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
  Capital creditors and other payables (Including retentions):-  
 
 
-Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises  
 74.86  
 90.03
 
(Refer note 44) 
 
-Total outstanding other than dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises 
 206.15  
 197.45 
 
  
281.01  
 287.48 
 Security Deposits from customers  
 1,394.49  
 1,326.45 
 Interest accrued on security deposits from customers  
 14.12  
 11.86 
 Security Deposit from customers towards MGO  
 151.24  
 151.85 
 Security Deposit from collection centres and others  
 5.15  
 4.82 
 Security Deposits from Suppliers  
 44.21  
 52.55 
 Unclaimed dividend (Refer Note 27.1)  
 1.35  
 1.52 
 Other current financial liabilities  
 6.29  
 5.43 
 Total  
 1,897.86  
 1,841.96
 Note 28  CURRENT LIABILITIES : OTHERS  
(` in Crores)
Refer Note 45 for financial Instruments, fair value and measurements.
Refer Note 48 for Related party balances.
Note 27.1: The balance with the bank for unpaid dividend is not available for use by the Company and the money remaining unpaid 
will be deposited in Investor Protection and Education Fund u/s 124(5) of Companies Act, 2013 after the expiry of seven years from 
the date of declaration of dividend. No amount is due at the end of the period for credit to Investors education and protection fund. 
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Advances from customer  
 77.35  
 30.33 
Deferred Revenue (Refer Note 49)  
 11.70  
 10.59 
Statutory dues payable (Includes Excise duty,VAT,GST,TDS,PF etc.)  
 28.61  
 35.11 
Provision for CSR (Refer note 54)  
 16.35  
 4.40 
Other Current Liabilities  
 0.15  
 0.26 
 Total  
 134.16  
 80.69
 Note 30  CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES (NET) 
(` in Crores)
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 Current income tax liabilities (Net of advance tax, TDS and TCS)  
 -    
 -   
 Total  
 -    
 -
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
(a) Income tax assets (Refer Note 10)  
 42.71  
 45.26 
(b) Current income tax liabilities  
 -    
 -   
  
                                                                          Net Asset (a-b) (Refer Note 10)  
 42.71  
 45.26
INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (NET)
Details of Income tax assets and income tax liabilities 
(` in Crores)
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Note 29 CURRENT PROVISION  
(` in Crores)
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 Provision for employee benefits (Refer note 47)  
 
 
Provision for gratuity  
 3.13  
 0.16 
 
Provision for leave encashment  
 1.81  
 2.65 
 
Provision for bonus & incentives  
 22.37  
 22.59 
 
Provision for other employee benefits  
 0.07  
 3.12 
 Total  
 27.38  
 28.52
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
246
 Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023 
Movement in income tax asset/(liability) 
(` in Crores)
Particulars 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Net current income tax asset/(liability) at the beginning of the period 
 45.26  
 27.07 
Movement during the year on account of : 
 
Income tax paid for the year 
 484.75  
 437.56 
 
Provision for Income tax for the year (Refer Note 40(a)) 
 (476.42) 
 (414.92)
 
Prior year tax paid /refund adjusted with tax / other items 
 12.44  
 (3.12)
 
Income tax refund received 
 (23.32) 
 (1.33)
Net current income tax asset/(liability) at the end of the period 
 42.71  
 45.26 
Note 31  REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
 Sale of Product (Including excise duty)  
 
 
 
Natural Gas  
 17,211.97  
 16,710.32 
 Other operating revenue  
 
 
 
Gas transmission / Compression Income  (Including excise duty)  
 7.34  
 5.26 
 
Yearly fees Income*  
 33.43  
 23.21 
 
Take or Pay Income  
 23.60  
 21.90 
 
Connection, Service and Fitting Income  
 25.56  
 24.64 
 
Other Operating Income  
 4.26  
 2.02 
 
 94.19  
 77.03 
Total 
 17,306.16  
 16,787.35
Note 32  OTHER INCOME 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Interest Income 
 
 
 
From Deposits with Banks/Financial Institutions* 
 25.06  
 14.67 
 
From Customers on delayed payments 
 16.46  
 17.56 
 
From Other financial assets at amortised cost (EIR) 
 1.21  
 0.99 
 
Others (including interest on tax refunds Current year ` 8.69 
 9.21  
 0.58
 
Crores, Previous year ` Nil )**
                    Total  
 51.94  
 33.80 
 Dividend on Investments  
 0.00  
 0.00 
 Late payment charges  
 12.78  
 10.79 
 Provisions / liabilities no longer required written back 
 16.91  
 20.78 
 Profit on Lease termination / modification / reassessment (net)  
 0.44  
 -   
 Profit on sale as scrap and diminution in Capital Inventory (net)  
 0.74  
 1.03 
 Other Non-Operating Income  
 18.52  
 24.47 
                                                                                                                               Total 
 101.33  
 90.87 
*Refer note 2(f) of Significant Accounting policy
*Includes interest Income on Security deposits in form of fixed/ liquid deposits with banks/ financial institutions 
 
**Includes interest income on deposits, staff advances and employee loans 
 
 
Figures INR 0.00 denotes amount less than INR 50,000/-. 
 
 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
247
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 34 CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF NATURAL GAS 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock in trade and  
work in progress  - Natural Gas 
 
 
      Inventory at the beginning of the year  
 14.16  
 6.92 
      Less: Inventory at the end of the year  
 16.92  
 14.16 
Total 
 (2.76) 
 (7.24)
Note 36 FINANCE COSTS 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
 Interest on Borrowings  
 12.99  
 35.27 
 Interest on Security Deposits & Others  
 15.97  
 13.45 
 Interest expenses on lease liability (Refer note 50)  
 9.83  
 7.25 
 Interest on Income Tax  
 1.56  
 0.85 
Total 
 40.35  
 56.82
*Salary & wages of employees directly involved in capital projects are capitalised in Property, plant and equipment (PPE). 
Note 35 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Salaries and Wages  
 160.96  
 153.19 
Contribution to Provident and Other Funds- Gratuity(Refer note 47)  
 21.60  
 19.99 
Leave Encashment & Other benefits  
 4.58  
 10.34 
Staff Welfare Expenses  
 13.81  
 12.99 
 
 200.95  
 196.51 
Less: Amount capitalised during the period*   
 (5.37) 
 (5.63)
Total 
 195.58  
 190.88
Note 37 DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EXPENSE 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Refer note 3.1)  
 374.46  
 338.02 
 Amortisation of intangible assets (Refer note 5.1)  
 24.46  
 21.97 
 Amortisation of ROU assets (Refer note 5.3)  
 29.34  
 24.92 
Total 
 428.26  
 384.91 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 33 COST OF MATERIALS CONSUMED / PURCHASE OF STOCK IN TRADE 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
 Natural Gas - Purchase  
 12,753.85  
 12,853.62 
 Gas Transportation Charges  
 525.23  
 582.51 
 Change in Deferred delivery of natural gas (GIT):-  
 
      Add :- Opening balance  
 -    
 7.98 
      Less:- Closing balance  
 (2.89) 
 -   
      Net Change in Deferred delivery of natural gas (GIT)  
 (2.89) 
 7.98 
Total 
 13,276.19  
 13,444.11 
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
248
Note 38 OTHER EXPENSES 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Consumption of Stores & Spares Parts  
 17.64  
 17.58 
Power and Fuel  
 163.32  
 119.28 
Repairs and Maintenance:  
 
- Buildings  
 1.83  
 2.47 
 
- Plant and Machinery  
 276.79  
 237.13 
 
- Others  
 15.80  
 13.45 
Lease Charges-Others (Refer Note 38.1)  
 40.85  
 33.80 
LCV/HCV Hiring, Operating and Maintenance Charges (Refer Note 38.1)  
 69.44  
 50.40 
Franchisee and other Commission  
 56.86  
 45.69 
Agency & Contract Staff Expenses  
 32.97  
 31.40  
Legal and Professional Charges  
 23.74  
 32.01 
ROW Running Charges  
 71.25  
 54.67 
Loss on sale / write-off of Fixed Assets (net)  
 3.26  
 1.49 
Bank Charges  
 26.41  
 24.86 
Billing and Collection Expenses  
 13.57  
 11.39 
Vehicles Expenses   
 6.66  
 6.61 
Office Expenses  
 8.77  
 9.32 
Postage and Telephone Expenses  
 4.99  
 4.51 
Allowance for Doubtful Trade Receivables/Advances/Deposits(net)  
 6.12  
 3.71 
Business Promotion Expenses  
 6.17  
 3.63  
Insurance  
 6.27  
 10.36 
Rates, taxes and duties  
 1.88  
 1.41 
Travelling and Conveyance   
 1.74  
 0.98 
Stationery and Printing Expenses  
 2.25  
 1.57 
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses (Refer Note no. 54)  
 31.03  
 23.54 
Payment to Auditors (Refer Note 38.2)  
 0.34  
 0.32 
Diminution in Capital Inventory/Loss on sale as scrap  
 0.88  
 2.74 
Miscellaneous Expenses  
 7.56  
 7.84 
Net loss on foreign currency transaction (Refer Note 38.3)  
 0.01  
 0.01 
Total 
 898.40  
 752.17 
Note 38.2 Payment to Auditors 
(  in Crores)
`
Note 38.3 Net (gain) or loss on foreign currency transaction 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
For Statutory Audit 
 0.34  
 0.32 
For Out of pocket expenses 
 -    
 -   
For Other services 
 0.00  
 0.00 
Total 
 0.34  
 0.32 
Loss on foreign currency transaction 
 0.01  
 0.01 
Gain on foreign currency transaction 
 0.00  
 0.00 
Net (gain) or loss on foreign currency transaction 
 0.01  
 0.01
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 38.1 
Leases charges-Others includes rental charges of all assets that have lease period of 12 month or less, rental charges of low value 
assets, variable lease payments and component of taxes of ROU lease charges. 
LCV/HCV Hiring, Operating and Maintenance Charges includes non lease component viz. manpower, fuel cost, repair and 
maintenance and rental charges of LCV/HCV lease assets that have lease period of 12 month or less. (Refer note 50).
Figures INR 0.00 denotes amount less than INR 50,000/-.
Figures INR 0.00 denotes amount less than INR 50,000/-.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Note 39.1 Exceptional item in previous year pertains to payment of stamp duty with regards to the Business Transfer Agreement 
(BTA) & conveyance deed executed for transfer / purchase of City Gas Distribution (CGD) Business of Amritsar and 
Bhatinda Geographical Areas  from Gujarat State Petronet Limited (a holding company) to the Company for cash consideration. 
(Refer Note 56) 
249
Note 39 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 
 (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Exceptional item  
 -    
 11.90 
Total 
 -    
 11.90
Note 40 TAX EXPENSE
(a) Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss 
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Income Tax Expenses 
 
Current Tax 
 
 
(a) Current income tax 
 476.42  
 414.92 
 
(b) Short/(Excess) provision of income tax in respect of previous years  
 (13.03) 
 1.13 
Total (A) 
 463.39  
 416.05 
Deferred tax 
 
 
Deferred tax expense / (Income)- net: 
 
 
(a) In respect of current year, Origination and reversal of  
 39.71  
 12.88
 
temporary differences 
 
(b) Short/(Excess) provision of deferred tax in respect of previous years 
 (3.91) 
 (1.14)
Total (B) 
 35.80  
 11.74 
Tax expense for the year ( A+B) 
 499.19  
 427.79
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
(b) Reconciliation of effective tax rate and tax expense with accounting profit 
 (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Profit before tax 
 2,027.57  
 1,715.16 
Tax using the Company’s domestic tax rate (Current year 25.17% and  
 510.30  
 431.67
Previous Year 25.17%) 
Tax effect on account of: 
 
 
 
Expenses not deductible or disallowances for tax purposes -  
 8.20  
 6.14
 
CSR, Interest u/s. 234B / 234C  etc. 
 
Other items 
 0.35  
 1.65 
 
Impact of Long Term Capital Gain on Land 
 (1.99) 
 (8.53)
 
Tax impact on Losses of GSPL (Amritsar & Bhatinda GA) on account  
 -    
 (2.71)
 
of restatement (Refer note 56)
 
Impact of low tax rate for DDT/ tax on share of profit of subsidiary  
 (0.73) 
 (0.42)
 
and associate
 
Impact of (Excess)/Short provisions of earlier year taxes 
 (16.94) 
 (0.01)
Total  
 499.19  
 427.79
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
250
Note 41 STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 (  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
For the year ended For the year ended
 
  
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 
 
 
 
I. Equity Instruments through Other Comprehensive Income 
 
 
 Fair value of unquoted investments - gain 
 8.02  
 2.62 
 
 Tax impact on unquoted investments 
 (1.80) 
 (0.50)
 
II. Remeasurement gains on defined employee benefit plans
 
 Actuarial gains 
 3.07  
 0.76 
 
 Tax impact on actuarial gains 
 (0.77) 
 (0.19)
 
 Share of Other comprehensive income of equity accounted investee 
 (0.16) 
 (0.01)
 
  
Total of Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 
 10.93  
 3.37 
Total Tax impact 
 (2.57) 
 (0.69)
Total   
8.36  
 2.68 
Note 42 EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE- FACE VALUE OF ` 2 EACH 
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:
Particulars 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Profit for the year (Profit attributable to equity shareholders (` in Crores) 
 1,528.38  
 1,287.37 
Weighted average number of ordinary equity shares for Basic EPS (in Nos.) 
 68,83,90,125  
 68,83,90,125 
Weighted average number of ordinary equity shares for Diluted EPS (in Nos.) 
 68,83,90,125  
 68,83,90,125 
Face Value of equity share (`) 
 2.00  
 2.00 
Basic EPS (`) 
 22.20  
 18.70 
Diluted EPS (`) 
 22.20  
 18.70 
Note:- Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted 
average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to 
equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average 
number of Equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential Equity shares into Equity shares. 
The Company does not have any outstanding dilutive potential equity shares. Consequently, the basic and diluted earnings per share 
of the Company remain the same.
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 43 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES & CONTINGENT ASSETS
(A) CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
(  in Crores)
`
Contingent liabilities  
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
(to the extent not provided for) 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Contingent Liabilities
(a)  Contingent Liabilities - Statutory claims ( Refer Note 43.1) 
 
 
 
Disputed statutory dues in respect of which Appeals are filed against / by  
 
the Company :  
 
 
 
(i) Excise Duty 
 
 17.97  
 18.90 
 
(ii) Income Tax 
 
 8.26  
 4.40 
 
(iii) Service Tax/ GST 
 
 47.29  
 41.13 
Total 
 
 73.52  
 64.43 
(b)  Claims / Litigations against the company not acknowledged as debt  
 
 482.18  
 459.01
 
(Refer Note 43.2) 
Total 
 
 555.70  
 523.45
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
251
The Group has reviewed all its pending claims, litigations and proceedings and has adequately provided for where provisions are 
required and disclosed as contingent liabilities where applicable, in its financial statements. The Group does not expect the outcome 
of these  claims, litigations and proceedings to have a materially adverse effect on its financial position.
Note 43.1 - Disputed statutory dues in respect of which Appeals are filed against / by  Group 
 
The Group is contesting the demands and the management including its advisors believe that its position is likely to be upheld in the 
appellate process. No tax expense has been accrued in the financial statements for the tax demand raised. The management believes 
that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the Group's financial position and results of 
operations.
Note 43.2 - Claims / Litigations against the company not acknowledged as debt includes the following major matters:  
(i)  
UPL Limited (UPL) a customer of erstwhile Gujarat Gas Company Limited (GGCL) (now known as Gujarat Gas Limited) had filed 
a complaint before Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) against erstwhile GGCL  alleging charging of tariff 
illegally under the City Gas Network Distribution Agreement entered into between the parties and filed claim of approx. 
` 76.98 Crores. The matter was decided against the company by PNGRB vide its Order dated 20.10.2014. The company  had 
preferred an appeal at Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) against the aforementioned PNGRB Order. APTEL has delivered 
final judgement on 10.03.2021 in favour of the Company by setting aside the aforementioned PNGRB Order, and has recorded 
that invocation of HAPI tariff by PNGRB for the negotiated arrangement between the parties was not only against the letter and 
spirit of regulations defining tariff zone but also tantamount to rewriting of contract.
 
UPL has preferred an appeal  before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India against the order of APTEL dated 10.03.2021. 
Presently, the matter is pending before Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. 
 
 
(ii) 
One of the gas suppliers of the Company has submitted claims of ` 212.14 Crores (P. Y. ` 189.59  Crores), for use of allocated 
gas for other than specified purpose, related to FY 2013-14 to FY 2021-22 and no claim received from supplier for FY 2022-
23. The company has refuted this erroneous claim and also there is no contractual provisions of the agreement executed with 
GGL that allow such claim. The management is of the firm view that the company is not liable to pay any such claim. The 
company has already taken up the matter with concerned party to withdraw the claim. 
 
(iii) The company has initiated an arbitration proceeding against one of the franchisees claiming compensation for loss of revenue. 
While replying to the claim, the said franchisee has also filed a counter claim of ` 177.14  Crores  (P.Y. ` 177.14  Crores) against 
the company claiming compensation for various losses. The company has filed necessary rejoinder to the counter claim strongly 
refuting the same mainly on the grounds that the counter claims are wrong and without merits and as are not flowing from the 
same agreement under which the arbitral tribunal has been constituted. Currently arbitral proceedings of this matter is pending 
before the sole arbitrator.
Note 43.3 The following demands / Litigations / matters are not included in above
(i)  
Erstwhile Gujarat Gas Company Limited and Erstwhile GSPC Gas Company Limited (Now collectively known as Gujarat Gas 
Limited “GGL”) had signed Gas supply agreement with Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited (GSPCL) for purchase of 
Re-gasified liquified natural gas (RLNG). As per the provision of said agreement, GGL has to pay interconnectivity charges to 
GSPCL for the supply and purchase of RLNG at Delivery point which is charged to GSPCL by their supplier i.e. PLL Off takers 
(GAIL India, BPCL, IOCL).
 
PGNRB had vide its order dated 13.09.2011 and the majority members of PNGRB (three member panel of Board) had vide its 
order dated 10.10.2011 held that GAIL had adopted Restrictive Trade Practices by blocking off direct connectivity to GSPCL and 
further, directed Respondents (PLL Off takers -GAIL India, BPCL, IOCL) to immediately give direct connectivity to GSPCL at 
Dahej Terminal. 
 
The PLL Offtakers (GAIL) filed appeals against the said PNGRB orders before the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL). On 
23.02.2012 APTEL had issued an interim order for shifting the Delivery Point from GAIL-GSPL Delivery Point to GSPL-PLL 
Delivery Point. On 18.12.2013 APTEL issued its judgment and required GSPCL to pay the amount of the difference between 
` 8.74/MMBTU (exclusive of Service Tax) – earlier connectivity charges and ` 19.83/MMBTU (Exclusive of Service Tax) – 
HVJ/DVPL Zone-1 tariff to GAIL for the period from 20th November 2008 to 29th February 2012.
 
GSPCL had filed an appeal against the APTEL’s above referred judgment before Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (GSPCL vs. GAIL 
& Others, Civil Appeal No. 2473-2476 of 2014) and the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India had passed the Interim Order on 28th 
February 2014. The Court has stated that the ends of justice would be met if as a matter of interim arrangement, the appellant is 
directed to pay interconnectivity charges at the rate of ` 12.00 per MMBTU (exclusive of Taxes).  The Company has already 
provided and paid interconnectivity charges at the rate of ` 12.00 per MMBTU (exclusive of Taxes). 
 
GGL has not received any bill / demand note for the amount over and above ` 12.00 per MMBTU from supplier till date. As the 
final liability would only be determined post the final order of the court, quantification of any amount as contingent liability in the 
interim is inappropriate due to the uncertainty involved and hence the same is not mentioned / disclosed in the financial statement.
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
252
(ii)  The Company deposited ` 464.78 crores on 12th June, 2013 into the escrow account (""named BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte. 
Limited GSPC Distribution Networks Limited Escrow Account"")  opened with Citibank N.A., acting as the escrow agent, 
pursuant to the escrow agreement executed between the BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte. Limited (the Seller), Gujarat Gas Limited 
(Formerly known as GSPC Distribution Networks Limited) (the Purchaser) and Citibank N.A. The Payment of said amount into 
Escrow Account was to be utilized to meet future tax withholding liability (if any) based on outcome of the applications to the 
Authority for Advance Rulings or otherwise to be remitted to BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte. Limited (the Seller) directly. 
 
The Company has received the ruling from the Hon’ble Authority for Advance Ruling (“AAR”), vide consolidated ruling order 
dated 25th February 2021 wherein the Hon’ble AAR has held that the transaction Price is not subject to any tax withholding in 
India and the Purchaser is not required to withhold tax since the capital gains is not subject to tax in India in view of Article 13(4) 
of the India Singapore Tax Treaty under India Singapore Double Tax Avoidance Agreement in the hands of the Seller. Pursuant to 
the ruling of the Hon’ble AAR and as per the terms of the Escrow Agreement, amount of Rs. 464.78 crores  kept in Escrow 
Account had been remitted to the BG Singapore on 7th April 2021.
 
During the year, Commissioner of Income Tax (International Taxation) – 3 (CIT), has filed Civil Misc. Writ Petition against BG 
Singapore, challenging the AAR Ruling before the Hon’ble High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital on 22.09.2021. CIT has also filed 
Impleadment /Amendment Application in Civil Misc. Writ Petition before the Hon’ble High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital on 
08.01.2022 for amendment of cause title of the petition and added Commissioner of Income Tax (IT & TP), Ahmedabad as 
Petitioner No. 2 and GGL as Respondent No. 2. Currently, the Impleadment /Amendment Application is in process for admission 
with Hon’ble High Court of Uttarakhand.
 
As per Share purchase agreement, the Seller had agreed to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Purchaser from and against 
any Tax claim notice receives on or prior to the expiry of 10 years from the Closing date (i.e. up to 11th June, 2023) in respect of 
Seller’s sale of shares to the Purchaser.
 
In view of this, there is remote possibility of any outflow in this matter and hence, the same has not been considered as 
Contingent Liability.
(iii)  The revision of Trade margin  with the Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs  namely IOCL, HPCL and BPCL) is pending from earlier 
years and is subject to mutual agreement between OMCs and the Company. In November 2021, the Ministry of Petroleum & 
Natural Gas (MoP&NG) issued an advisory pertaining to revised Trade margin and subsequently citing MoP&NG advisory, OMCs 
have started to claim revised Trade margin discounts & deductions in CNG sales bill payment made to the company. The 
Company has contested the decision of the OMCs in considering the revised trade margins without any mutual agreement with 
the Company.
 
Pending settlement, the liability is provided to the extent considered appropriate by the Company. No provision has been made 
for period earlier to the advisory.
(iv) Two entities, who have been authorized by the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB), have filed complaints 
against the Company before the PNGRB for claiming compensation with respect to the unauthorized development / operations 
of CGD infrastructure activities carried out by the Company in their authorised area. The Company has also filed a complaint 
against one of the entities before the PNGRB for unauthorized development / operations of CGD infrastructure in area 
authorised to the Company. Further, the Company has raised objections to the maintainability of the such complaints, which are 
yet to be determined by the PNGRB. The quantification of any liability is not ascertainable at this stage. However, the Company is 
hopeful of arriving at amicable resolution of the subject issues.
B) 
 CONTINGENT ASSETS 
 
 
 
(i)  
The Company has raised claim of ` 43.08 crores (Previous year ` 43.08 crores)  for net credit of natural gas pipeline tariff as per 
PNGRB Order with one of the suppliers and supplier is disputing company’s claim and indicating for adjusting the partial claim of 
` 30.72 crores (Previous year ` 30.72 crores) out of total claim ` 43.08 crores (Previous year ` 43.08 crores) against disputed 
liability for use of allocated gas other than specified purpose, against demand in earlier year (Refer Point 43.2 (ii) above). 
(ii)  The Company has filed an appeal before the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) against the PNGRB order related to the 
matter held that the Gas Swapping Arrangement Guidelines of PNGRB is applied erroneously. APTEL has issued the order in 
favour of GGL. The said supplier has filed appeal at Hon’ble Supreme Court of India against the order of APTEL. 
 
Presently, the matter is pending in Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. Currently, GGL is paying ` 19.83 per mmbtu as transmission 
charges for domestic gas being purchased and delivered by GAIL at one of the delivery points . If verdict is in favour of GGL, GGL 
will get refund of ` 229.12 Crores (Previous year ` 193.65 Crores) from December 2013 till March 2023 and the company shall 
be required to pass on the benefit to its customers as per relevant order of the Court. 
(iii)  The Company is having other certain claims, litigations and proceedings which are pursuing through legal processes. The 
management believe that probable outcome in all such claims, litigations and proceedings are uncertain. Hence, the disclosure of 
such claims, litigations and proceedings is not required in the financial statements. 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
253
Note 44 DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY THE MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT ACT, 2006
 
     
(  in Crores)
`
 Sr. 
Particulars 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 No.  
 
March 2023 
March 2022
1
2
3
4
5
6
The principal amount outstanding as at the end of accounting year. 
a) Trade payable 
b) Capital creditors 
Principal amount due and remaining unpaid as at the end of accounting year. 
Interest paid by the company in terms of section 16 of the Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (27 of 2006), along with the 
amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during 
accounting year. 
Interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which have 
been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the 
interest specified under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development 
Act, 2006. 
Interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of accounting year (Refer 
Note below). 
Further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until 
such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small 
enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under 
section 23 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 
2006.
 
  
18.50  
 21.36 
  
74.86  
 90.03 
  
-    
 -   
  
-    
 -   
  
 
-    
 -   
  
 
-    
 -   
  
 
-    
 -   
Note : Note: No interest has been paid by the Company to the enterprises covered under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
Development Act, 2006 according to the terms agreed with the enterprises. 
 
 
 
 The above information regarding micro, small and medium enterprises have been determined to the extent such parties have 
been identified on the basis of information available with the Company.
 
Other commitments 
 
(i)  
All term contracts for purchase of natural gas with suppliers, has contractual  volume off take obligation of “Take or Pay”  (ToP) 
as specified in individual contracts.  Quantification of ToP amount is dependent on various factors like actual purchase quantity, 
gas purchase prices of respective contract etc. As these factors are not predictable, ToP commitment amount is not 
quantifiable. 
 
 
(ii)  The Company has been granted authorization for laying, building, operating and expanding CGD network in the total 27  
geographical area under the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Authorizing entities to lay, build, operate or expand 
city or local Natural Gas Distribution Networks) Regulation 2008, against which Company is required to complete Minimum 
Work Programme (MWP) target for development of CGD network  under the terms of authorisation awarded by Petroleum and 
Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB). For this purpose, the Company had submitted performance bank guarantees (issued by 
banks on behalf of the Company) amounting to ` 6528.83 crores (previous year ` 6528.83 crores) to the Petroleum and 
Natural Gas Regulatory Board.
(C) COMMITMENTS 
`
 
 
 (  in Crores)
 
Commitments  (to the extent not provided for) 
 
As at 31st 
As at 31st
 
 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
1 
Estimated amount of contracts  remaining to be executed on capital   
 
 798.87  
 976.83
 
account and not provided for 
 
2 
Estimated amount of contracts  remaining to be executed on revenue   
 
 1,309.35  
 1,163.69 
 
account and not provided for
Total 
 
 2,108.22  
 2,140.52
 Sr.
 No.
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
254
March 31, 2023 
FVTPL FVTOCI Amortised 
Total 
Level 1 - 
Level -2 
Level 3 -  
Total
 
 
 
Cost 
 
Quoted   Significant 
Significant 
 
 
 
 
 
price in observable unobservable 
 
 
 
 
 
 active 
 inputs 
 inputs
 
 
 
 
 
 markets
Financial assets  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investments  
 -    
 30.38  
 -    
 30.38  
 -    
 -    
 30.38  
 30.38 
Financial assets measured 
at amortised cost 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans (Non-current) 
 -    
 -    
 2.74  
 2.74  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Loans (Current) 
 -    
 -    
 3.84  
 3.84  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Other financial assets 
 -    
 -    
 97.92  
 97.92  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
(Non-current)
 
Other financial assets 
 -    
 -    
 9.86  
 9.86  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
(Current)
 
Trade receivables 
 -    
 -     1,021.15   1,021.15  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 -    
 -    
 674.70  
 674.70  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Other bank balances 
 -    
 -    
 6.28  
 6.28  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Total  
 -     30.38   1,816.49   1,846.87  
 -    
 -    
 30.38   30.38 
Financial liabilities measured
at amortised cost
 
Non current borrowings 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Current borrowings  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Non current-Lease Liabilities 
 -    
 -    
 123.93  
 123.93  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Current -Lease Liabilities 
 
 
 28.39  
 28.39  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Non current financial  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
liabilities- Others
 
Trade payables 
 -    
 -    
 715.58  
 715.58  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Other financial liabilities 
 -    
 -     1,897.86   1,897.86  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
Total  
 -    
 -    2,765.76   2,765.76  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -
A. 
ACCOUNTING CLASSIFICATION AND FAIR VALUES 
(  in Crores)
`
Carrying amount
Fair value#
Note 45 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS) AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company has various financial assets and liabilities. The disclosures regarding the classification, fair value hierarchy, markets risk, 
credit risks and liquidity risks are as follows:
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
March 31, 2022 
FVTPL FVTOCI Amortised 
Total 
Level 1 - 
Level -2 
Level 3 -  
Total
 
 
 
Cost 
 
Quoted   Significant 
Significant 
 
 
 
 
 
price in 
observable unobservable 
 
 
 
 
 
 active 
 inputs 
 inputs
 
 
 
 
 
 markets
Financial assets  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Investments  
 -     22.36  
 -    
 22.36  
 -    
 -    
 22.36  
 22.36 
Financial assets measured  
 
 
 
 
 
 
at amortised cost 
 Loans (Non-current) 
 -    
 -    
 3.56  
 3.56  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Loans (Current) 
 -    
 -    
 2.91  
 2.91  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Other financial assets  
 -    
 -    
 81.27  
 81.27  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 (Non-current)
 Other financial assets  
 -    
 -    
 19.02  
 19.02  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 (Current)
 Trade receivables 
 -    
 -     930.05  
 930.05  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Cash and cash equivalents 
 -    
 -    
 19.78  
 19.78  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Other bank balances 
 -    
 -    
 1.54  
 1.54  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Total  
 -     22.36   1,058.13   1,080.49  
 -    
 -    
 22.36  
 22.36 
Financial liabilities  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
measured at amortised cost
 Non current borrowings 
 -    
 -     390.97  
 390.97  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Current borrowings  
 -    
 -    
 90.10  
 90.10  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Non current-Lease  
 -    
 -    
 125.33  
 125.33  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Liabilities
 Current -Lease Liabilities 
 
 
 22.45  
 22.45  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Non current financial  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 liabilities- Others
 Trade payables 
 -    
 -     447.05  
 447.05  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 Other financial liabilities 
 -    
 -     1,841.96   1,841.96  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 - 
 Total  
 -    
 -     2,917.86   2,917.86  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 - 
Carrying amount
Fair value
255
Note 45 Financial Instruments (fair Value Measurements) And Financial Risk Management 
...
(continued )
(  in Crores)
`
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Fair Value Hierarchy of Financial Assets and Liabilities  : 
 
 
 
# Fair value of financial assets and liabilities which are measured at amortised cost is not materially different from the carrying value 
(ie..amortised cost). Accordingly, the fair value has not been disclosed separately. 
 
 
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices.
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, traded bonds, over-the 
counter derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as 
possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is 
included in level 2.
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This is the 
case for unlisted equity securities included in level 3.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
The estimated fair value would 
increase (decrease) if:
There is a change in pricing multiple 
owing to change in earnings of the 
entity.
Considering the diverse asset and 
investment base of the Company 
with differing risk/return profiles, a 
sum of the parts approach has 
been adopted for the valuation. 
Under this method, the value of 
each distinct business / asset / 
investment has been arrived at 
separately and total value estimate 
for the Company presented as the 
s u m  o f  a l l  i t s  b u s i n e s s  / 
investments  / assets.
Comparable unobservable 
entity has been taken as a 
base for the valuation of 
unquoted equity shares 
and its management's 
own assumptions for 
arriving at a fair value such 
as projected cash flows 
used to value a business 
etc. 
As stated, highest priority 
is given to unadjusted 
quoted price of listed 
entities and lowest priority 
to non-market linked 
inputs such as future cash 
flows used in income
approach.
Market comparison technique: The valuation model is based on 
three approaches :
1. Market approach : This approach uses information 
generated by market transactions of the Company being 
valued or the transactions of comparable companies. The 
following market-linked information may be used for 
determining valuation under this approach.
 
- Quoted price of the company being valued,
 
- Past transaction value of the company being valued,
 
- Listed comparable companies' trading multiples like price to 
earning ratio, enterprise value to earning before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation, enterprise value to sales etc.
 
- Transactions multiples for investment / M & A transaction of 
comparable companies.
 
The valuation arrived at based on the market approach 
reflects the current value of the Company perceived in the 
active market. However, as the valuation arrived at using 
market multiples is based on the past/current transaction or 
traded values of comparable companies/businesses, it may 
not reflect the possible changes in future trend of cash flows 
being generated by a business.
2. Income approach : The income approach reflects present 
value of future cash flows. For valuing a business, the 
discounted cash flow (DCF) methodology is used under this 
approach. This methodology works on the premise that the 
value of a business is measured in terms of future cash flow 
streams, discounted to the present time at an appropriate 
discount rate. This method is used to determine the present 
value of business on a going concern assumption. The DCF 
technique recognizes the time value of money.
 
The value of the firm is arrived at by estimating the Free Cash 
Flow to Firm (FCFF) and discounting the same at the 
Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC). FCFF is estimated 
by forecasting free cash flows available to the firm (which are 
derived on the basis of the likely future earnings of the 
company).
3.  Cost approach :The cost approach essentially estimates the 
cost of replacing the tangible assets of the business. The 
replacement cost takes into account the market value of 
various assets or the expenditure required to create the 
infrastructure exactly similar to that of a company being 
valued.
Significant
unobservable inputs
Valuation technique
Inter-relationship between
significant unobservable inputs
and fair value measurement
256
B. 
MEASUREMENT OF FAIR VALUES
i)  
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
 
The following tables show the valuation techniques used in measuring Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, as well as the 
significant unobservable inputs used.
 
Financial instruments measured at fair value - FVTOCI in unquoted equity shares
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 45 Financial Instruments (fair Value Measurements) And Financial Risk Management 
...
(continued )
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
257
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
C. 
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 
The Company has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments: 
 
 
- Credit risk ; 
 
 
 
-  Liquidity risk ; and 
 
 
 
- Market risk 
 
 
 
i.  
Risk management framework 
 
 
 
The Company’s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company’s risk 
management framework.  
 
 
 
The Company has a well-defined Risk Management framework for reviewing the major risks and has adopted a Business Risk 
Management Policy which also takes care of all the financial risks. Further, pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 21 of SEBI 
(Listing obligation and disclosure Requirements) Regulation, 2015, the company has constituted a Risk Management Committee 
inter - alia to monitor the Risk Management Plan of the Company.
 
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company’s activities.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
ii) 
Transfers between Levels 1 and 2
 
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the reporting periods.
iii) Level 3 fair values
 
Movements in the values of unquoted equity instruments for the period ended 31st March 2023 and 31st March 2022 is as 
below:  
 
 
 (` in Crores)
Equity Instrument:- Fair value of investment in GSPC shares is based on Market approach, Income approach and cost approach.
Transfer out of Level 3
There were no movement in level 3 in either directions during the year ended 31st March 2023 and the year ended 31st March 2022.
Ind AS 101 allows an entity to designate certain investments in equity instruments as fair valued through the OCI on the basis of the 
facts and circumstances at the transition date to Ind AS.
The Company has elected to apply this exemption for its investment in equity shares.
Sensitivity analysis
Based on the valuation report for investments in unquoted shares, the sensitivity as on 31st March 2023 is provided below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (` in Crores)
Particulars 
 
 
Amount
As at 1 April 2021 
 
 
 19.74 
Acquisitions/ (disposals) 
 
 
 -   
Gains/ (losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 
 
 
 2.62 
Gains/ (losses) recognised in statement of profit or loss 
 
 
 -   
Closing Balance as at 31 March 2022 
 
 
 22.36 
Acquisitions/ (disposals) 
 
 
 -   
Gains/ (losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 
 
 
 8.02 
Gains/ (losses) recognised in statement of profit or loss 
 
 
 -   
Closing Balance as at 31 March 2023 
 
 
 30.38 
 
 
 
OCI
 
 
 
10% Increase 
10% Decrease
Equity securities in unquoted investments measured through OCI
Impact of variation in fluctuation in the market prices of subsidiary 
companies / Gas marketing business of investee company
As on 31st March 2023 
 
 3.00  
(3.00)
As on 31st March 2022 
 
 3.04  
 (3.04)
Significant observable inputs
Note 45 Financial Instruments (fair Value Measurements) And Financial Risk Management 
...
(continued )
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
ii.  
Credit risk 
 
 
 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Company's trade receivables from customers and security deposits. 
 
The carrying amount of following financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure: 
 
(a) 
Other financial assets 
 
 
 
The company maintains its Cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks / financial institutions having good reputation, 
good past track record and high quality credit rating and also reviews their credit-worthiness on an on-going basis. 
(b) 
Trade and other receivables 
 
 
 
The Company's exposure to credit Risk is the exposure that Company has on account of goods sold or services rendered to a 
contractual counterparty or counterparties, whether with collateral or otherwise for which the contracted consideration is yet 
to be received.  The Company's customer base are Industrial, Commercial-Non Commercial, Domestic and CNG. 
 
The Commercial and Marketing department has established a credit policy for each category of customer viz. industrial, 
domestic and commercial.   
 
 
 
The Company raises the invoice for quantities sold based on periodicity as per the agreement. Sales are subject to security 
deposit and/or bank guarantee clauses to ensure that in the event of non-payment the company's receivables are secured. In 
case of short/non receipt of security deposit/or bank guarantee, the Company is exposed to credit risk to that extent. 
 
For sales to domestic customers for household purposes like cooking, geyser application, etc., invoices are raised periodically.  
Security deposits along with connection deposits are taken for mitigation of potential credit risk arising in the event of non-
payment of invoices. Company is exposed to credit risk beyond the value of deposits. 
 
 
CNG sales made through operators of the CNG stations owned by the Company and CNG Franchises outlet are exposed to 
credit risk as amounts so collected is deposited/transferred in company bank account on next working day. Bank Guarantee / 
Security Deposit is taken to mitigate the credit risk. In case of short/non receipt of security deposit/or bank guarantee, the 
Company is exposed to credit risk to that extent.
 
For CNG sales made through Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs), the Company raises the invoice for quantities sold based on 
periodicity as per the agreement. The OMCs are well established companies viz. HPCL, BPCL, IOCL, Nayara Energy (e-Essar Oil 
Ltd.) where no significant credit risk is anticipated.
 
The Company provides for allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of expected losses in respect of trade and 
other receivables. All trade receivables are reviewed and assessed for default on regular basis. Our historical experience of 
collecting receivables, supported by the level of default, is that credit risk is low. Credit risk is considered high when the counter 
party fails to make contractual payment within 180 days of when they fall due. The risk is determined by considering the 
business environment in which the company operates and other macro economic factors.  
 
 
Assets are written off when there are no reasonable expectation of recovery such as debtor declaring bankruptcy or failing to 
engage in a repayment plan with the Company. Where receivables have been written off the company continues to engage in 
enforcement activity to attempt to recover the receivables. where recoveries are made, these are recognised in profit and loss. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables by geographic region was as follows: (  in Crores)
`
 
 
 
Carrying amount
 
 
 31st March 2023 31st March 2022
 
India 
 
 906.85  
 869.39 
 
Other regions 
 
 -    
 -   
 
Total 
 
 906.85  
 869.39
Expected credit loss for Trade receivables under Simplified Approach 
(  in Crores)
`
 
 
 
Carrying amount
 
 
 31st March 2023 31st March 2022
 
Neither past due nor impaired 
 
 800.30  
 740.94 
 
Past due 1–180 days 
 
 82.47  
 106.46 
 
Past due 181 to 365 days 
 
 8.54  
 6.93 
 
Past due 366 to 1095 days 
 
 6.97  
 6.40 
 
Greater than 1095 days 
 
 8.57  
 8.67 
 
 
  
906.85  
 869.39 
 
Less: Expected credit losses (Allowance for bad and doubtful) 
 
 19.74  
 13.64 
 
Carrying amount of Trade Receivable (net of impairment) 
 
 887.11  
 855.75
258
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Particulars
Particulars
Note 45 Financial Instruments (fair Value Measurements) And Financial Risk Management 
...
(continued )
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
In addition to the historical pattern of credit loss, the Company has considered the likelihood of increased credit risk and 
consequential defaults considering emerging economic situations. The assessment is based on management estimates 
considering the nature of receivables and the market conditions.
 
Movement in Allowance for bad and doubtful Trade receivable 
(` in Crores)
 
The impairment provisions  above are based on management judgment / assumptions about risk of default and expected loss 
rates. The Company uses judgment in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs to the impairment calculation, based 
on the company's past history as well as forward looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
(c) Security deposits
 
Company has given security deposit to various government authorities (like Municipal corporation, Nagarpalika, 
Grampanchayat,  Road & building division and Irrigation department -of Govt. of Gujarat etc. ) for the permission related to work 
of executing / laying pipeline network in their premises / jurisdiction. Being government authorities, the Company has no 
exposure to any credit risk. 
 
 
Movement in Allowance for bad and doubtful Security deposits-Project authority 
 (` in Crores)
 
The impairment provisions for financial assets - Security Deposit as disclosed above are based on management judgment / 
assumptions about risk of performance default . The Company uses judgment in making these assumptions and selecting the 
inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the company's past history  as well as forward looking estimates at the end of 
each reporting period.
iii. 
Liquidity risk
 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial 
liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Company’s approach to managing liquidity is to 
ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they are due, under both normal and 
stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Company’s reputation.
 
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Company’s liquidity position and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of 
expected cash flows. Short term liquidity requirements comprises mainly of trade payables arising in the normal course of 
business and is managed primarily through internal accruals and/or short term borrowings. Long term liquidity requirement is 
assessed by the management on periodical basis and managed through internal accruals as well as from undrawn borrowing 
facilities.
 
Financing arrangement
 
The Company had access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the reporting period:  
 (` in Crores)
259
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Particulars 
 
31-Mar-23 
31-Mar-22
Opening Allowance for bad and doubtful Trade receivable 
 
 13.64  
 9.85 
Add: Provision during the year 
 
 6.10  
 3.79 
Less: Write off during the year  
 
 -    
 -   
Closing Allowance for bad and doubtful Trade receivable 
 
 19.74  
 13.64 
Particulars 
 
31-Mar-23 
31-Mar-22
Opening Allowance for bad and doubtful Security deposits 
 
 11.78  
 13.38 
Provision during the year 
 
 1.16  
 1.33 
Recovery/Adjustment during the year 
 
 (2.51) 
 (2.93)
Write off during the year  
 
 -    
 -   
Closing Allowance for bad and doubtful Security deposits 
 
 10.43  
 11.78 
Particulars 
 
31-Mar-23 
31-Mar-22
Floating rate
Expiring within one year (working capital, bank overdraft and other facilities) 
 
 1,257.47  
 557.47 
Expiring beyond one year (working capital, bank overdraft and other facilities)  
 -    
 -   
Total 
 
 1,257.47  
 557.47
Note 45 Financial Instruments (fair Value Measurements) And Financial Risk Management 
...
(continued )
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
Exposure to liquidity risk
 
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The amounts are gross and 
undiscounted, and include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting agreements. 
 (` in Crores)
 
- 
Other current financial liabilities include customer deposits which are considered repayable on demand.
 
- 
The gross inflows/(outflows) disclosed in the above table represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to 
non-derivative financial liabilities held for risk management purposes and which are not usually closed out before 
contractual maturity.
iv. 
Market risk
 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk, such as equity price risk. 
Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings, deposits and FVTOCI investments.
 
a) 
Currency risk
 
The functional currency of the Company is Indian Rupee ( ). The Company's transactions are majorly denominated in INR and 
the quantum of the foreign currency transactions being immaterial, the company is not exposed to currency risk on account of 
payables and receivables in foreign currency. The company does not have any exports. Import amount to 0.95 % (Previous Year 
0.84%) of total consumption of stores and spares, this is not perceived to be a major risk.
 
b) Interest rate risk
 
Interest rate risk can be either fair value interest rate risk or cash flow interest rate risk. Fair value interest rate risk is the risk of 
changes in fair values of fixed interest bearing investments because of fluctuations in the interest rates. Cash flow interest rate 
risk is the risk that the future cash flows of floating interest bearing investments will fluctuate because of fluctuations in the 
interest rates.
 
On period under review the Company do not have any borrowings at fixed rate and  has not entered into interest rate swaps for 
its exposure to long term borrowings at floating rate. 
(` in Crores)
 
 
 
 
(` in Crores)
260
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
Carrying 
amount
Carrying 
amount
Non-derivative financial liabilities
 
Non current borrowings 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Non current-Lease Liabilities 
 185.62  
 185.62  
 -    
 35.09  
 66.80  
 83.73 
 
Current Borrowings 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Lease Liabilities 
 36.10  
 36.10  
 36.10  
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Trade and other payables 
 715.58  
 715.58  
 715.58  
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Other current financial liabilities 
 1,897.86  
 1,897.86  
 1,897.86  
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
  
2,835.16  
 2,835.16   2,649.54  
 35.09  
 66.80  
 83.73 
Non-derivative financial liabilities
 
Non current borrowings 
 390.97  
 390.97  
 -    
 86.88  
 260.64  
 43.45 
 
Non current-Lease Liabilities 
 189.52  
 189.52  
 -    
 30.07  
 74.73  
 84.72 
 
Current Borrowings 
 90.10  
 90.10  
 90.10  
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Lease Liabilities 
 29.96  
 29.96  
 29.96  
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Trade and other payables 
 447.05  
 447.05  
 447.05  
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Other current financial liabilities 
 1,841.96  
 1,841.96  
 1,841.96  
 -    
 -    
 -  
 
 
 2,989.56   2,989.56   2,409.07  
 116.95  
 335.37  
 128.17 
Total
Total
Undiscounted Contractual cash flows
Undiscounted Contractual cash flows
Less than
12 months
Less than
12 months
1-2
years
1-2
years
2-5 
years
2-5 
years
More than
5 years
More than
5 years
Term loan 
 
As at 31st  
As at 31st 
  
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Non current - Borrowings 
 
 -    
 390.97 
Current portion of Long term borrowings 
 
 -    
 86.95 
Total 
 
 -    
 477.92 
Note 45 Financial Instruments (fair Value Measurements) And Financial Risk Management 
...
(continued )
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
*There are no interest bearing loans and borrowings by the Company as on 31st March 2023.
The Company’s adjusted net debt to equity ratio is as follows.
 
 
 
(  in Crores)
`
 
 
 
 
Long term borrowings* 
 
 -    
 477.92 
Total equity 
 
 7,027.95  
 5,629.93 
Debt equity ratio 
 
 -    
 0.08 
Long term borrowings* 
 
 -    
 477.92 
Short term borrowings 
 
 -    
 3.15 
Interest bearing borrowings 
 
 -    
 481.07 
Less : Cash and bank balances 
 
 680.98  
 21.32 
Adjusted net debt 
 
 -    
 459.75 
Adjusted net debt to adjusted equity ratio 
 
 -    
 0.08
As at
31st March 2023 
As at
31st March 2022
Particulars
261
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 
Sensitivity analysis
 
Profit or loss is sensitive to higher/lower interest expense from borrowings as a result of change in interest rates.
 
The Company does not account for any fixed-rate financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and the 
Company does not have any designate derivatives (interest rate swaps) . Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting 
date would not affect profit or loss.
 
A reasonably possible change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased (decreased) Equity 
and Profit or Loss by the amount shown below: 
 (` in Crores)
c) 
Commodity Price Risk
 
Risk arising on account of fluctuations in price of natural gas is mitigated by ability to pass on the fluctuations in prices to 
customers over period of time. The company monitors movements in the prices closely on regular basis.
d)  Equity Price Risk
 
The Company do not have any investment in quoted equity shares hence not exposed to equity price risk.
Note 46 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
Total equity as shown in the balance sheet includes equity share capital, general reserves and retained earnings.  
 
There are no interest bearing loans and borrowings by the Company as on 31st March 2023. 
 
The Company's objectives when managing capital is to Safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern, so that they can 
continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders. 
 
 
The Company's policy is to maintain a stable and strong capital structure with a focus on total equity so as to maintain investor, 
creditors and market confidence and to sustain future  development and growth of its business. The Company will take appropriate 
steps in order to maintain, or if necessary adjust, its capital structure. The management monitors the return on capital as well as the 
level of dividends to shareholders. 
 
 
 
The Company monitors capital using a ratio of ‘adjusted net debt’ to ‘adjusted equity’. For this purpose, adjusted net debt is defined as 
total liabilities, comprising interest-bearing loans and borrowings, less cash and bank balances. Adjusted equity comprises all 
components of equity.
Particulars
As at 31st March 2023
Non current - Borrowings 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
Current portion of Long term borrowings 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
Total 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
As at 31st March 2022
Non current - Borrowings 
 (3.91) 
 3.91  
 (2.93) 
 2.93 
Current portion of Long term borrowings 
 (0.87) 
 0.87  
 (0.65) 
 0.65 
Total 
 (4.78) 
 4.78  
 (3.58) 
 3.58 
Profit or (Loss)
Equity (net of tax)
100 bp Increase 100 bp decrease 100 bp Increase 100 bp decrease
Note 45 Financial Instruments (fair Value Measurements) And Financial Risk Management 
...
(continued )
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
*The Company expects that total outstanding gratuity liability payable as on 31.03.2023 will be paid to the gratuity trust within next 
12 months.  
 
 
 
 
Note 47 DISCLOSURE OF  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 
 
 
 
The Company has implemented Ind AS - 19 on “Employee Benefits”.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Gratuity and Leave Encashment - Defined Benefit Plans (payable in future)
 
Provision has been made for gratuity and leave encashment (earned leave) as per actuarial valuation. The principal assumptions 
used in actuarial valuation and necessary disclosures are as below:
(  in Crores)
`
Sr. 
Particulars 
 
 
 
 
 
No.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Gratuity 
Leave 
Gratuity 
Leave 
  
 
   
  
 
Encashment 
 
Encashment
A. 
Assumptions
  
Discount rate 
 
 
7.50% 
7.50% 
7.00% 
7.00%
  
Rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
7.50% 
N.A. 
7.00% 
N.A.
  
Salary Escalation 
 
 
10.00% 
10.00% 
10.00% 
10.00%
B. 
Change in Defined Benefit Obligations 
 
 
 
 
  
Liability at the beginning of the year 
 
 
 83.01  
 55.40  
 76.37  
 52.05 
  
Transfer in/(out) obligation 
 
 
 (0.04) 
- 
 (0.07) 
-
  
Interest Cost 
 
 
 5.62  
 3.79  
 4.84  
 3.32 
  
Current Service Cost 
 
 
 6.25  
 3.88  
 6.09  
 3.98 
  
Benefits Paid 
 
 
 (5.20) 
 (4.05) 
 (3.17) 
 (3.03)
  
Actuarial loss/ (gain) due to experience adjustment  
 
 (0.33) 
 0.55  
 4.40  
 3.36 
  
Actuarial (Gain) / Loss due to change in financial e stimate 
 
 (4.82) 
 (3.73) 
 (5.45) 
 (4.28)
  
Total Liability at the end of the year  
 
 
 84.48  
 55.83  
 83.01  
 55.40 
C. 
Change in Fair Value of plan Assets 
 
 
 
 
  
Opening fair Value of plan assets 
 
 
 82.85  
 -    
 75.85  
 -   
  
Transfer in/(out) plan assets 
 
 
 (0.04) 
 -    
 (0.07) 
 -   
  
Expected return on plan assets 
 
 
 5.83  
 -    
 5.00  
 -   
  
Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in interest income  
 (2.08) 
 -    
 (0.29) 
 -   
  
Contributions by employer 
 
 
 -    
 -    
 5.52  
 -   
  
Benefits Paid 
 
 
 (5.20) 
 -    
 (3.17) 
 -   
  
Closing fair Value of plan assets 
 
 
 81.35  
 -    
 82.85  
 -   
D. 
Expenses Recognised in the statment of Profit and Loss
  
Current Service Cost 
 
 
 6.25  
 3.88  
 6.09  
 3.98 
  
Interest Cost 
 
 
 5.62  
 3.79  
 4.84  
 3.32 
  
Expected return on plan assets 
 
 
 (5.83) 
 -    
 (5.00) 
 -   
  
Actuarial (Gain) / Loss 
 
 
 (3.07) 
 (3.18) 
 (0.76) 
 (0.91)
  
Expenses charged to Statement of Profit & Loss   
 
 2.97  
 4.48  
 5.16  
 6.38 
E. 
Balance Sheet Reconciliation 
 
 
 
 
  
Opening Net Liability 
 
 
 0.16  
 55.40  
 0.52  
 52.05 
  
Employee Benefit Expense 
 
 
 6.04  
 4.48  
 5.93  
 6.38 
  
Amounts recognized in Other Comprehensive Income 
 
 (3.07) 
 -    
 (0.76) 
 -   
  
Contributions by employer 
 
 
 -    
 -    
 (5.52) 
 -   
  
Benefits Paid 
 
 
 -    
 (4.05) 
 -    
 (3.03)
  
Closing Liability 
 
 
 3.13  
 55.83  
 0.16  
 55.40 
F. 
Current/Non-Current Liability : 
 
 
 
 
  
Current* 
 
 
 3.13  
 1.81  
 0.16  
 2.65 
  
Non-Current 
 
 
 -    
 54.02  
 -    
 52.75
(a) Contributions to Defined Contribution Plan, recognised as expense for the year are as under: 
(  in Crores)
`
Sr.
No. 
   
(i)  
Provident Fund 
 10.57  
 9.81 
(ii)  
National Pension Scheme 
 4.99  
 4.42 
For the Year ended
31st March 2023 
For the Year ended
31st March 2022
262
31st March 2022
31st March 2023 
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Particulars
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(c) Amounts recognised in current year and previous four years 
(  in Crores)
`
Sr. 
Particulars 
As at 31st  
As at 31st 
As at 31st  
As at 31st  
As at 31st
No.  
March 2023 
March 2022 
March 2021 
March 2020 
March 2019
A. 
Gratuity 
 
 
 
 
  
Present value of Defined Benefit Obligation 
 84.48  
 83.01  
 76.37  
 67.96  
 55.28 
  
Fair value of Plan Assets 
 81.35  
 82.85  
 75.85  
 56.19  
 47.91 
  
(Surplus) / Deficit in the plan 
 3.13  
 0.16  
 0.52  
 11.77  
 7.37 
  
Actuarial (Gain) / Loss on Plan Obligation 
 (4.82) 
 (5.45) 
 3.56  
 5.34  
 3.69 
  
Actuarial Gain / (Loss) on Plan Assets 
 (2.08) 
 (0.29) 
 1.98  
 (0.05) 
 (0.24)
B. 
Earned Leave (Leave encashment) 
 
 
 
 
  
Present value of Defined Benefit Obligation 
 55.83  
 55.40  
 52.05  
 45.54  
 39.71 
  
Actuarial (Gain) / Loss on Plan Obligation 
 (3.73) 
 (4.28) 
 2.83  
 4.16  
 3.10 
C. 
Long Service Award 
 
 
 
 
  
Present value of Defined Benefit Obligation 
 1.05  
1.00 
 0.97  
 0.89  
 0.81 
  
Actuarial (Gain) / Loss on Plan Obligation 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -  
 
Gratuity 
Leave Encashment 
Gratuity 
Leave Encashment
Discount rate (0.5% movement) 
 80.05  
 52.42  
 89.30  
 59.56 
Salary growth rate (0.5% movement) 
 89.35  
 59.59  
 79.96  
 52.36 
Withdrawal rate (W.R.) varied by 10 % 
 84.26  
 55.60  
 84.73  
 56.06
 
Gratuity 
Leave Encashment 
Gratuity 
Leave Encashment
Discount rate (0.5% movement) 
 78.49  
 51.88  
 87.94  
 59.27 
Salary growth rate (0.5% movement) 
 87.96  
 59.27  
 78.42  
 51.84 
Withdrawal rate (W.R.) varied by 10 % 
 82.68  
 55.11  
 83.34  
 55.70
 As at 31st March 2023
 As at 31st March 2022
  Particulars
  Particulars
 Increase  
 Increase  
Decrease
Decrease
(d)  Sensitivity analysis 
 
 
 
 
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions 
constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below.
(e) Gratuity Benefits Plan: 
 
 
 
 
The benefit is governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (as amended). The Key features are as under: 
 
Features of the defined benefit plan 
Remarks 
 
Benefit offered 
15 / 26 × Salary × Duration of Service 
 
Salary definition 
Basic Salary including Dearness Allowance (if any) 
 
Benefit ceiling 
No ceiling 
 
Vesting conditions 
5 years of continuous service (Not applicable in case of death / disability) 
 
Benefit eligibility 
Upon Death or Resignation / Withdrawal or Retirement 
 
Retirement age 
60 years
 
(i) Entity’s responsibilities for the governance of the plan 
 
 
 
 
Risk to the Plan 
 
 
 
 
 
Following are the risk to which the plan exposes the entity :
 
 
A.  Actuarial Risk: 
 
 
 
 
 
It is the risk that benefits will cost more than expected. This can arise due to one of the following reasons:
 
 
-Adverse Salary Growth Experience: Salary hikes that are higher than the assumed salary escalation will result into an i ncrease 
in Obligation at a rate that is higher than expected.
 
 
-Variability in mortality rates: If actual mortality rates are higher than assumed mortality rate assumption than the Gratuity 
benefits will be paid earlier than expected. Since there is no condition of vesting on the death benefit, the acceleration of cash 
flow will lead to an actuarial loss or gain depending on the relative values of the assumed salary growth and discount rate.
(  in Crores)
`
263
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 47 DISCLOSURE OF  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 
...
(continued )
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
 
-Variability in withdrawal rates: If actual withdrawal rates are higher than assumed withdrawal rate assumption than the 
Gratuity benefits will be paid earlier than expected. The impact of this will depend on whether the benefits are vested as at 
the resignation date." 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  Investment Risk: 
 
 
 
 
 
For funded plans that rely on insurers for managing the assets, the value of assets certified by the insurer may not be the fair 
value of instruments backing the liability. In such cases, the present value of the assets is independent of the future discount 
rate. This can result in wide fluctuations in the net liability or the funded status if there are significant changes in the discount 
rate during the inter-valuation period. 
 
 
 
 
 
C.  Liquidity Risk: 
 
 
 
 
 
Employees with high salaries and long durations or those higher in hierarchy, accumulate significant level of benefits. If some 
of such employees resign / retire from the company there can be strain on the cash flows. 
 
 
 
D.  Market Risk: 
 
 
 
 
 
Market risk is a collective term for risks that are related to the changes and fluctuations of the financial markets. One 
actuarial assumption that has a material effect is the discount rate. The discount rate reflects the time value of money. An 
increase in discount rate leads to decrease in Defined Benefit Obligation of the plan benefits & vice versa. This assumption 
depends on the yields on the corporate / government bonds and hence the valuation of liability is exposed to fluctuations in 
the yields as at the valuation date.  
 
 
 
 
 
E.  Legislative Risk:  
 
 
 
 
 
Legislative risk is the risk of increase in the plan liabilities or reduction in the plan assets due to change in the legislation / 
regulation. The government may amend the Payment of Gratuity Act thus requiring the companies to pay higher benefits to 
the employees. This will directly affect the present value of the Defined Benefit Obligation and the same will have to be 
recognized immediately in the year when any such amendment is effective.
 
(ii) The company has participated in Group Gratuity Scheme Plan with Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), HDFC Life 
Insurance Co. Ltd, Aditya Birla Sun Life Insurance Co. Ltd, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Co. Ltd,  SBI Life Insurance Co. Ltd., 
Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd and Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Co. Ltd   (collectively referred as Insurance Co.) 
through Gratuity Trust to meet its gratuity liability. The present value of the plan assets represents the balance available at 
the end of the year. The total value of plan assets is as certified by the various Insurance Co.
 
(a) Composition of the plan assets:
 
Particulars 
31st March, 2023  31st March,  2022     31st March, 2021
Bank balance 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00%
Policy of insurance 
100.00% 
100.00% 
100.00%
Others 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00%
 (b) The trustees of the plan have outsourced the investment management of the fund to an insurance company. The insurance 
company in turn manages these funds as per the mandate provided to them by the trustees and the asset allocation which is 
within the permissible limits prescribed in the insurance regulations. Due to the restrictions in the type of investments that 
can be held by the fund, it may not be possible to explicitly follow an asset-liability matching strategy to manage risk actively 
in a conventional fund.
 (c) Expected benefit payments for gratuity as on 31st March 2023.
(f)  Expected benefit payments as on 31st March 2023 for Privilege Leave encashment benefits.
(g) Other Notes: 
 
 
 
 
(i)  The expected rate of return on Plan Assets is determined considering several applicable factors, mainly the composition of 
Plan Assets held, assessed risks, historical results of return on Plan Assets and the Company’s policy for the Plan Assets 
management. 
 
 
 
 
(ii)  The actuarial valuation takes into account the estimates of future salary increases, inflation, seniority, promotion and other 
relevant factors such as supply and demand in the employment market. The management has relied on the overall actuarial 
valuation conducted by the actuary.
 
Particulars 
1-3 years 
4-5 years        6 year & Above 
 
Cash flow (` in Crores) 
 6.19  
 8.02  
 162.49 
 
Distribution ( in %) 
3.50% 
4.60% 
91.90%
 
Particulars 
1-3 years 
4-5 years        6 year & Above 
 
Cash flow ( ` in Crores) 
 12.78  
 14.91  
 204.66 
 
Distribution ( in %) 
5.50% 
6.40% 
88.10% 
264
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 47 DISCLOSURE OF  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 
...
(continued )
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
 
(iii) The company has provided long service award benefits to its employees who completed 15/20/25 Years of employment 
with company. Long Service Awards are recognised as a liability based on actuarial valuation of the defined benefit 
obligation as at the balance sheet date. Accordingly, expenses of ` 0.10 Crores (previous year ` 0.10 Crores) has been 
charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss towards Long service awards. Company has recognised Current Liability of  
` 0.07 Crores (Previous year ` 0.07 Crores) and Non- Current Liability of ` 0.98 Crores (Previous year ` 0.93 Crores) as at 
31st March 2023 and Discount rate considered for current year is 7.50% (previous year 7%). 
 
 
(iv) The Company has provided ` Nil (previous year ` 3.85 Crores) during the year on account of death compensation benefits 
and current provision as on 31st March 2023 is Nil (previous year ` 3.05 Crores) as the Company has taken group life 
insurance policy during the year. 
 
 
 
 
(v)  The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post-employment 
benefits received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. However, 
the date on which the Code will come in to effect has not been notified. 
 
 
The Company will assess the impact of the Code when it comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period 
when the Code becomes effective.
 
(vi)  Employee Stock Option Plan :  There are no options outstanding as on 31st March 2023, 31st March 2022.  
Note 48 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
As per the Indian Accounting Standard-24 on “Related Party Disclosures”, list of parent & subsidiary of the Company are as follows. 
(a) Parent Entity 
 
Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited (GSPC) -Ultimate Holding Company (w.e.f.,20th  October,2022) & Intermediate 
Holding Company (upto 19th October, 2022)
Gujarat State Petronet Limited (GSPL) - Holding Company 
 
Gujarat  State Investment Limited (GSIL) - Ultimate Holding Company (Upto 19th October, 2022) 
 
(b) Subsidiary / Associate / Enterprise Controlled by the Company 
 
Guj Info Petro Limited- GIPL - Associate 
 
Gujarat Gas Limited Employee Stock Option Welfare Trust - Enterprise controlled by the company 
 
Gujarat Gas Limited Employees Group Gratuity Scheme - Enterprise controlled by the company 
 
Related Party Transactions for the Year ended 31st March, 2023 
 (  in Crores)
`
265
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 Sr. Name of Related Party 
Relationship 
Nature of Transactions & Balances 
 
For the year 
For the year
no. 
 
 
 
 
ended  31st 
ended  31st
  
 
 
 
  March, 2023 March, 2022
 1 
Gujarat State Petroleum  
Ultimate Holding 
Purchase of Natural Gas (NG) 
 
 11,299.90  
 13,769.21 
  
Corporation Limited - GSPC 
Company  
Rent Expense 
 
 0.00  
 0.00 
  
 
(w.e.f. 20th  
Brokerage Services for NG Trading 
 
 1.36  
 -   
  
 
October,2022) Gas Transportation Charges 
 
 1.13  
 -   
  
 
Intermediate 
Reimbursement of Expenses 
 
 0.77  
 0.69 
  
 
 Holding  
Recharge of Salary - Expense  
 
 0.89  
 0.63 
  
 
Company  
Sale of Natural Gas 
 
 17.98  
 -   
  
 
(Upto 19th 
Income from Material sale 
 
 -    
 0.01 
  
 
 October,  
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund) 
 
 (0.02) 
 0.02 
  
 
2022) 
Balance at period end 
 
  
 
 
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
 
 (307.51) 
 (212.27)
  
 
 
Investment at Period end 
 
 30.38  
 22.36 
  
 
 
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net 
 
 -    
 0.02 
  
 
 
Bank Guarantee  by GGL to GSPC 
 
 938.96  
 1,326.92 
  
 
 
Letter of Credit - by GGL to GSPC 
 
 391.58  
 -   
 2 
Gujarat State Petronet  
Holding   
Gas Transmission Expense 
 
 451.68  
 542.13 
  
Limited - GSPL 
Company 
Purchase of Natural Gas  
 
 -    
 2.23 
  
 
 
Right of Way Expense - Exps / (Refund) 
 
 0.52  
 0.10 
  
 
 
Connectivity Charges  
 
 1.69  
 -   
  
 
 
Business Transfer- CGD Business of Amritsar  
 
 -    
 153.86 
  
 
 
& Bhatinda from GSPL to GGL
  
 
 
Reimbursement of Expenses 
 
 0.34  
 0.28 
  
 
 
Dividend Paid 
 
 74.57  
 74.57 
  
 
 
Rent Expense 
 
 2.85  
 2.27 
  
 
 
Recharge of Salary - Expense  
 
 0.04  
 0.04 
  
 
 
Compression Charges  
 
 -    
 2.87 
  
 
 
Reimbursement of Deposit Receivable from Authorities 
 0.28  
 -   
  
 
 
O&M Charges  - Income 
 
 0.05  
 0.04 
  
 
 
Rent - Income 
 
 0.03  
 0.03 
  
 
 
Reimbursement of Expenses - Income 
  
0.01  
 10.01 
  
 
 
Recharge of Salary - Income  
  
1.08  
 1.03 
Note 47 DISCLOSURE OF  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 
...
(continued )
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
266
 Sr. Name of Related Party 
Relationship 
Nature of Transactions & Balances 
 
For the year 
For the year
no.  
 
 
 
ended  31st 
ended  31st
  
 
 
 
  
March, 2023 March, 2022
  
 
 
Sale of Material - Income 
 
 -    
 0.23 
  
 
 
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund) [Other than Connectivity]   
0.44  
 (0.02)
  
 
 
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund)  [For Connectivity] 
  
12.00  
 4.00 
  
 
 
Supervision Charges -Income 
 
 -    
 0.01 
  
 
 
Interest On Late Payment 
 
 -    
 0.01 
  
 
 
Asset Purchase 
 
 8.05  
 -   
  
 
 
Balance at the period end 
 
   
  
 
 
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
 
 (23.36) 
 (19.36)
  
 
 
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net [Other than Connectivity]  
 2.47  
 2.03 
  
 
 
Deposit (For Connectivity) 
 
 51.32  
 39.32 
  
 
 
Bank Guarantee - by GGL to GSPL 
 
 52.92  
 52.92 
  
 
 
Letter of Credit - by GGL to GSPL 
 
 0.10  
 0.10
3  
Sabarmati Gas Limited - SGL Associate of  
Gas Transportation Expense 
 
  0.76  
 0.68
  
 
Holding  
Compression Charges 
 
  3.54  
 1.70 
  
 
Company 
Supervision Charges Expense 
 
 -    
 0.04 
  
 
 
Gas Transportation Charges - Income 
 
 0.41  
 0.35 
  
 
 
Consulting Charges - Income 
 
 -    
 0.24 
  
 
 
Misc. Income 
 
 0.00  
 -   
  
 
 
Income from Material sale 
 
 1.68  
 0.78 
  
 
 
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund) 
 
 (0.06) 
 0.04 
  
 
 
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
 
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
 
 (0.12) 
 0.30 
  
 
 
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net 
 
 -    
 0.06 
  
 
 
Bank Guarantee - by GGL to SGL 
 
 0.20  
 0.16 
4  
Guj Info Petro Limited- GIPL Associate 
Web Development / Bandwidth Charges  
 
 0.00  
 0.02
  
 
 
Software Maintenance Expenses 
 
 0.01  
 -   
  
 
 
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
 
Investment at Period end 
 
 0.03  
 0.03 
5  
Gujarat State Energy  
Associate of   
Dividend Paid 
 
 0.27  
 0.27
  
Generation Limited - GSEG 
Ultimate  
Reimbursement of Expense 
 
 0.00  
-
 
 Holding  
Balance at the period end
 
Company 
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net 
 
 (0.10) 
 (0.10)
 
(w.e.f. 20th
 
October,2022) 
  
 
Associate of 
  
 
Intermediate 
  
 
Holding 
  
 
Company 
  
 
(Upto 19th 
  
 
October, 2022)
6  
GSPL India Gasnet Limited  
Joint Venture  
Rent Expenses 
 
 0.68  
 0.65
- GIGL 
of Holding  
Gas Transportation Expense 
 
 0.73  
 0.48
 
Company 
Right of Way Expense (ROW) 
 
 0.01  
 0.09 
 
O&M Charges 
 
 0.64  
 0.07 
 
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund) [Other than Connectivity] 
 (0.08) 
 0.14 
 
Deposit Given - Paid / (Refund)  [For Connectivity] 
  
12.00  
 10.15 
 
Interest Paid 
 
 0.00  
 -   
 
Balance at the period end 
 
 
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
 
 (0.03) 
 (0.04)
 
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net [Other than Connectivity]  
0.16  
 0.24 
 
Deposit (For Connectivity) 
 
 50.15  
 38.15 
 
Bank Guarantee - by GGL to GIGL 
 
 0.07  
 0.06 
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 48  Related Party Transactions for the Year ended 31st March, 2023  (continued...)
(  in Crores)
`
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
(  in Crores)
`
 Sr. Name of Related Party 
Relationship 
Nature of Transactions & Balances 
 
For the year 
For the year
no. 
 
 
 
 
ended  31st 
ended  31st
  
 
 
 
  March, 2023 March, 2022
7  
GSPL India Transco Limited  
Joint Venture 
Reimbursement of Exp -Income 
 
 -    
 0.00
  
- GITL 
 of Holding  
Rent Expenses 
 
 0.05  
 0.04
  
 
Company 
8  
Gujarat State Fertilizers &   
Associate of  
Rent Expenses 
 
 0.41  
 0.53
  
Chemicals Limited 
Ultimate 
Dividend Paid 
 
 9.38  
 9.38
  
 
 Holding  
Maintainance Charges Paid 
 
 0.05  
 0.07
  
 
Company 
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
(Upto 19th  
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net 
 
 -    
 0.09
  
 
October, 2022)
9  
Gujarat Alkalies & Chemicals 
Associate of  
Dividend Paid 
 
 4.26  
 4.26
  
 Limited 
Ultimate  
Deposit Given  / (Refund) 
 
 -    
 (0.02)
  
 
Holding  
Supervision Charges -Income 
 
 -    
 0.01
  
 
Company 
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
(Upto 19th  
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net 
 
 -  
 (0.04)
  
 
October, 2022)
10 
Gujarat Narmada Valley  
Associate of  
Rent Expenses 
 
 0.04  
 0.07 
  
Fertilizers & Chemicals Limited Ultimate  
Technology Services 
 
 0.06  
 0.14
  
 
Holding  
Dividend Paid 
  
0.05  
 0.05
  
 
Company 
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
(Upto 19th  
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
 
 -  
 (0.02)
  
 
October, 2022)
11 
Gujarat State Financial   
Associate of  
Interest received - Income 
 
 7.25  
 12.22  
  
Services Limited - GSFS  
Ultimate  
Deposit - Placed/Renewed  
 
 6,982.50  
 11,342.25
  
 
Holding  
Deposit - Withdrawn/Redeemed   
 
 6,233.00  
 11,603.25
  
 
Company 
Balance at the period end 
 
  
 
(Upto 19th  
Amount Receivable/(Payable)  
 
 -  
 -
  
 
October, 2022) 
12 
Gujarat Gas Limited Employees Enterprise  
Gratuity Contribution Paid 
 
 -    
 5.36
  
Group Gratuity Scheme 
controlled by  
  
 
the company 
13 
Shri. Sanjeev Kumar, IAS -   
Key  
Sitting Fees (deposited in Govt. Treasury Account)  
 -   
 -
  
Managing Director   
Managerial  
Nil (Previous Year- Nil)
  
(Upto 31st March 2023) 
Personnel 
Out of Pocket Expenses - Nil (Previous Year - ` Nil) 
Notes  
 
 
 
 
1 
The company deals on regular basis with entities (apart from Group Companies) directly or indirectly controlled by the State 
Government of Gujarat.  Such entities are collectively referred as “Government related entities” and includes companies in 
which Government of Gujarat has majority shareholding, government authorities, agencies, affiliations and other organizations.  
 
Apart from transactions with its group companies, the Company has transactions with government related entities, including 
but not limited to the followings:  
 
- Sale and Purchase of Natural Gas
 
- Investment, renewal & redemption of funds/deposits 
 
- Interest income from investments in deposits
 
- Payment of Dividend 
 
- Rendering and Receiving Services
 
- Payment of Rent
 
- Use of Public Utilities 
 
Below are the details of significant tranactions carried with Government Related Entities in FY 2022-23.   In order to determine 
the level of significance of the transaction with Government Related Entities, threshold limits have been considered as 
prescribed in the defintion of “Material Related Party Transaction” of GGL's “Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions 
and dealing with Related Party Transactions”
267
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 48  Related Party Transactions for the Year ended 31st March, 2023  (continued...)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
268
2 
The company sells natural gas to domestic, commercial, industrial and CNG consumers. The above related party transaction do 
not include the transactions of Gas sales to the related parties in ordinary course of business, as all such transactions are done at 
arm’s length basis.  As per Para 11(c)(iii) of Ind AS-24 “Related Party Disclosures”, normal dealings of Company with related 
parties by virtue of public utilities are excluded from the purview of Related Party Disclosures 
 
3 
In compliance to the provisions of Section 2(51) of Companies Act-2013, the following are the details of remuneration 
paid/payable to KMP - Chief Financial Officer & Company Secretary  
Notes:
(i)  
Remuneration does not include provision for leave encashment (provided in books as per actuarial valuation), mediclaim 
 
insurance, life insurance cover, etc which are extended for the company as a whole as per HR Policy and hence individual figures 
 
cannot be identified.  Leave encashment paid during the year have been included in remuneration.  
(ii)  Remuneration breakup is based on the salary reimbursed to GSPC.
4 
Details of Sitting Fees & Out of Pocket Expenses (in total) paid to Directors other than Managing Director
Sr. 
Particulars 
For the year ended  
 For the year ended 
no. 
 
31st March 2023 
 31st March 2022
1.  
Shri. Anil Mukim, IAS - Chairman # (upto 03.09.2021) 
 -    
 0.00 
2. 
Smt. Sunaina Tomar, IAS # (upto 05.07.2021) 
 -    
 0.00 
3.  
Dr. Manjula Subramanium, IAS (Retd.) (upto 28.01.2022) 
 -    
 0.00 
4.  
Shri. Milind Torawane, IAS # (upto 30.12.2022) 
 0.02  
 0.02 
5. 
Shri. K. D. Chatterjee (upto 20.04.2022) 
 0.00  
 0.04 
6.  
Shri. Jal Patel (upto 20.04.2022) 
 0.00  
 0.03 
7. 
Prof. Piyush Kumar Sinha (upto 15.08.2021) 
 -    
 0.01 
8.  
Prof. Vishal Gupta (upto 15.08.2021) 
 -    
 0.01 
9.  
Prof. Yogesh Singh 
 0.01  
 0.01 
10. 
Shri Bhadresh Mehta 
 0.04  
 0.01 
11.  
Dr. Rajiv kumar Gupta, IAS # (upto 08.06.2022) 
 0.00  
 0.00 
12.  
Shri Pankaj Kumar, IAS # (upto 01.02.2023) 
 0.00  
 0.00 
13. 
Shri Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.) (w.e.f., 20.04.2022) 
 0.03  
 -   
14. 
Dr. Rekha Jain (w.e.f., 20.04.2022) 
 0.02  
 -   
15.  
Shri Raj Kumar, IAS # (w.e.f. 21.07.2022) 
0.00  
 -
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars
Relationship
Nature of Transactions & Balances
For the Period 20th 
October 2022 to 
31st March 2023 
Gujarat State Financial 
Services Limited - GSFS
Government Related 
Entity (w.e.f 20th 
October 2022)
Interest received - Income 
14.42  
Deposit - Placed/ Renewed  
6,675.50  
Deposit - Withdrawn / Redemed  
 6,801.00  
Balance at the period end 
 
Deposits Asset / (Liability) - Net 
 624.00
Note 48  Related Party Transactions for the Year ended 31st March, 2023 (Continued….)
 
 
 
 
 
 
`
   (  in Crores) 
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
 
 
   (  in Crores)
`
 
Shri. Nitesh Bhandari – Chief Financial Officer [Refere Note (i)] 
 1.41  
 1.30 
Short Term Benefits – ` 1.23 Crores  (P.Y. ` 1.13 Crores)
Post-Employment Benefits – ` 0.18 Crores (P.Y. ` 0.17 Crores) 
Shri. Sandeep Dave – Company Secretary [Refere Note (ii)] 
 0.68  
 0.54
Short Term Benefits – ` 0.59 Crores (P.Y. ` 0.46 Crores)
Post-Employment Benefits – ` 0.09 Crores (P.Y. ` 0.08 Crores) 
For the Year ended
31st March 2023 
For the Year ended
31st March 2022
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
 # Sitting fees payable to directors are deposited in Government Treasury Account
Particulars
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
269
Contract asset is the right to consideration in exchange for goods or services transferred to the customer. Contract liability is the 
entity’s obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the entity has received consideration from the customer in 
advance. Contract assets (unbilled receivables) are transferred to receivables when the rights become unconditional and contract 
liabilities are recognised as and when the performance obligation is satisfied.
5 
There has been change in shareholding of Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited (GSPC) in lieu of which Gujarat State 
Investment Limited (GSIL) ceased to be holding company of GSPC w.e.f 19th October 2022.  Consequently, GSIL has ceased to 
be Ultimate Holding company of Gujarat Gas Limited w.e.f. 19th October, 2022.  Accordingly, related party transactions with 
Assocites of GSIL have been reported till 19th October 2022. 
 
6 
All transactions with related parties were carried out in the ordinary course of business and at arm’s length. 
 
7 
All transactions amount disclosed above are inclusive of tax. 
 
8 
Bank Guarantees, Letter of Credits provided to related parties are for routine business activity such as Gas procurement, 
Transmission and  Compression service etc.  
 
9 
Deposits  given/ received (other than investment made in GSFS) to related parties are for routine business activity 
10 Figures INR 0.00 denotes amount less than INR 50,000/-
Note 49  RECEIVABLES, CONTRACT ASSETS AND CONTRACT LIABILITIES 
(WITH REFERENCE TO IND AS 115 - REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS)
Revenue recognised in the statement of profit and loss :
Revenue from contracts with customers (refer note 31): 
Sale of Natural gas is the main activity of city gas distribution business and other operating income is incidental to sale of natural gas. 
Company sells and distributes natural gas in India.
Sale of natural gas includes excise duty but excludes VAT and GST collected from the customers on behalf of the Government. All the 
revenue mentioned above are earned by transfer of goods or services at a point of time.
Reconciliation of the amount of revenue recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss with the contracted price
 
 
   (  in Crores)
`
The following table provides information about receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities from 
contract with customers: 
 (  in Crores)
`
Sr. No. Particulars 
As at 31st March 2023 As at 31st March 2022
 (i) 
Receivables
 
 
Trade receivables 
 887.11  
 855.75 
 
 
Unbilled Revenue 
 134.04  
 74.30 
 
 
Total Trade receivables 
 1,021.15  
 930.05
 (ii) 
Current Financial Liabilities - Others (Contract liabilities)
 
 
Security Deposits from customers  
 1,394.49  
 1,326.45 
 
 
Security Deposit from customers towards MGO  
 151.24  
 151.85 
 
 
Interest accrued on security deposits from customers  
 14.12  
 11.86 
 
 
Total Current Financial Liabilities - Others (Contract liabilities) 
 1,559.85  
 1,490.16
 (iii) 
Contract liabilities  (Current Liabilities - Others)
 
 
Advance from customers 
 77.35  
 30.33 
 
 
Total contract liabilities  (Current Liabilities - Others) 
 77.35  
 30.33
 (iv) 
Deferred Revenue
 
 
Non Current 
 71.08  
 68.83 
 
 
Current 
 11.70  
 10.59 
 
 
Total Deferred Revenue 
 82.78  
 79.42
 (v) 
Income recognised during the year out of opening  
 11.30  
 9.85
 
 
balance of deferred revenue
Particulars 
 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
  
 
 
 31st March 2023 
 31st March 2022
Revenue as per contracted price 
 17,364.76  
 16,814.40 
Adjustments 
 
 
       Provision for revenue contract price 
 (58.60) 
 (27.05)
Revenue from contract with customers 
 17,306.16  
 16,787.35 
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 48  Related Party Transactions for the Year ended 31st March, 2023 (Continued….)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
270
(  in Crores)
`
A
Particulars 
               Lease Assets* 
 
 
 FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22
Gross Carrying Value 
 
 
Opening balance 
 
290.13  
 188.91 
Addition during the year 
 
33.74  
 81.18 
Other adjustment/ Reassessment 
 
 0.04  
 29.65 
Deduction during the year 
 
 7.16  
 9.61 
Closing Balance (A) 
  316.75  
 290.13 
Accumulated amortization 
 
 
Opening balance 
 
31.91  
 16.09 
Addition during the year 
 
29.34  
 24.92 
Other adjustment/ Reassessment 
 
- 
 0.33 
Deduction during the year 
 
 2.89  
 9.43 
Closing Balance (B) 
 
 58.36  
 31.91 
Net Block ( A-B) 
  258.39  
 258.22 
* Refer note 5.3
Performance obligations -Connection, Service and Fitting Income 
 
 
Connection charges from customers deferred over the period when the performance obligation is satisfied:  
 
Industrial Customers: The performance obligations as per the contractual arrangement with the customer is to deliver gas over the 
tenure of the contract. Consequently, the connection charges is to be deferred over the contract period. 
 
Domestic Customer: The connection charges is to be deferred over the period of delivery of gas. It is reasonably expected by the 
Company that the gas is procured by the customer and supplied by the Company on a perpetual basis. Consequently the connection 
charges are to be deferred over the useful life of the connection facility (i.e. 18 years). 
Note 50  LEASES (Ind AS 116)
  The Company has adopted Ind AS 116 ‘Leases', effective from 1st April, 2019, using modified retrospective approach. 
50.1 The Company as a lessee
 
 The Company has taken various assets on lease primarily consist of leases for land, buildings, vehicles and Plant & machinery. 
Under Ind AS 116, the Company recognises right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. 
 
 
 The weighted average incremental borrowing rate of 8.59% p.a. has been applied to lease liabilities recognised in the balance 
sheet at the date of initial application. 
 
 
 
 
 The likely weighted average incremental borrowing rate of 5.5 % to 8 % p.a. has been applied to lease liabilities recognised in 
the balance sheet during the year.
50.1.1 The Company used a number of practical expedients summarised here below:  
 
 
1) Applied the exemption not to recognize right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases with less than 12 months of lease  
 
 term on the date of initial application.  
 
 
 
 
2)  Applied the exemption not to recognize right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases of low value assets.
50.1.2 Nature of the lease transaction:
 
 Land Leases -  
 
 
 
 
 The Company has taken several plots of land on lease for setting up CNG, City Gas Station, CPRS/DPRS station and for site 
office purpose. The lease term mentioned in the agreements ranges from 11 months to 99 years. Lease agreements are 
renewable on mutually agreed terms and do not contain any non-cancellable period. In certain contacts, the Company is 
restricted from assigning and subletting the leased assets. 
 
 Building Leases -  
 
 
 
 
 The Company has taken various office/warehouse buildings on lease with monthly and annual payment terms. The lease term 
mentioned in the agreements ranges from 11 months to 9 years. Most of the agreements are renewable on mutually agreed 
terms, some of them are having non - cancellable period  whereas few agreements are silent on renewal. In certain contacts, 
the Company is restricted from assigning and subletting the leased assets. 
 
 Other Leases 
 
 
 
 
 The Company has also taken various commercial vehicles,  CNG Cascade, booster compressor and other equipments, IT 
equipment etc. on lease.  The lease term mentioned in the agreements ranges from 6 months to 10 years.  Some portion of 
the lease rentals is based on usage of the equipment considered as variable lease payment. Lease rentals include lease and 
non lease component viz. manpower, fuel cost, repair and maintenance etc. and only hiring portion is considered for ROU 
accounting.
50.1.3 The following is the carrying amounts of Company's Right of use assets and the movement in lease liabilities during the year 
ended March 31, 2023.
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
271
Particulars 
               Lease liabilities* 
 
 
 
       FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22
Opening balance 
 
 147.78  
 85.32 
Addition during the year 
 
 33.74  
 81.18 
Adjustment on account of reassessment /modification/termination 
 
 (4.66) 
 (0.17)
Add: Interest Expenses 
 
 9.83  
 7.25 
Less: Payments 
 
 (34.36) 
 (25.80)
Closing Balance 
 
 152.32  
 147.78 
Current 
 
 28.39  
 22.45 
Non current  
 
 123.93  
 125.33 
 * Refer note 21
B. 
Movement in Lease liability with Current/Non current break up:- 
 
(` in Crores)
*Leases charges-Others includes rental charges of all assets that have lease period of 12 month or less, remaining lease 
period of 12 months or less as on transition date, rental charges of low value assets, variable lease payments and 
component of taxes of ROU lease charges.  
LCV/HCV Hiring, Operating and Maintenance Charges includes lease component viz. rental charges of LCV/HCV lease 
assets that have lease period of 12 month or less.
50.1.4 Amounts recognized in profit or loss 
 
50.1.5 
The total Cash outflow for ROU assets is ` 24.53  Crores ( Previous year ` 18.55 Crores) for the year ended 31st March, 
2023 (excluding interest). 
 
50.1.6 
Contractual maturity analysis of undiscounted lease liabilities is given below:
(  in Crores)
`
Particulars 
As at 31st  
As at 31st 
 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
Less than one year 
 36.10  
 29.96 
One to two years 
 35.09  
 30.07 
two to five years 
 66.80  
 74.73 
More than five years 
 83.73  
 84.72 
Total 
 221.72  
 219.48
Particulars 
For the year ended 
For the year ended
 
 
31st March 2023 
31st March 2022
Lease charges-Others* (Refer Note 38) 
 40.85  
 33.80 
Interest expenses (Refer Note 36) 
 9.83  
 7.25 
Depreciation charge for right-of-use assets (Refer Note 37) 
 29.34  
 24.92
1 
Promoters 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
2 
Directors 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
3 
KMPs 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
4 
Related Parties 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Total 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Maturity Analysis of lease liabilities (undiscounted): 
 (` in Crores)  
50.2 
 The Company as a lessor 
 
The Company accounted for its leases in accordance with Ind AS 116.
Note 51 ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION DISCLOSURES
Note 51.1 Loans and advances granted to specified person:
 
(A) Loans / Advance in the nature of loan - Repayable on Demand: 
(` in Crores) 
Sr. No
As on 31st March 2023
As on 31st March 2022
Type of Borrowers
Amount 
Outstanding - 
Gross Carrying 
Amount
% of Total Loan 
and Advance in 
the Nature of 
Loan
Amount 
Outstanding - 
Gross Carrying 
Amount
% of Total Loan 
and Advance in 
the Nature of 
Loan
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 50 LEASES 
...
(continued )
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
272
Note 51.2 Relationship with struck off companies:
 
Based on the information available with the company, the required disclosures are given below: 
Note 51.3 Willful Defaulter 
 
The company is not declared as willful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender. 
Note 51.4 Utilisation of borrowed funds 
 
The company has used the borrowings from banks for the specific purpose for which it was taken. The company has not 
taken any borrowings from financial institution. 
Note 51.5 Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies (ROC) 
 
The company has registered charge and satisfaction with ROC within statutory time period. 
Note 51.6 Details of Benami Property held  
 
The company does not hold any benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) 
and rules made thereunder, hence no proceedings initiated or pending against the company under the said Act and Rules. 
Note 51.7 Utilisation of borrowed funds, share premium and other funds 
 
The Company has not given any advance or loan or invested funds from borrowed funds or share premium or any other 
sources with the understanding that intermediary would directly or indirectly lend or invest in other person or equity 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the company as ultimate beneficiaries or provide any guarantee 
or security or the like to on behalf of ultimate beneficiaries.  
 
The Company has not received any fund from any person or entity with the understanding that the Company would 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other person or entity identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
funding party (ultimate beneficiary) or provided any guarantee or security or the like on behalf of the ultimate 
beneficiary.
Note 51.8 Compliance with number of layers of companies 
 
As the company is a Government Company, in terms of section 2(45) of the Companies Act, compliance with number of 
layers of the companies as per section 2(87) of the Companies Act read with Companies (Restriction on number of 
Layers) Rules 2017, is not applicable. 
 
As on 31st March 2023:
1 
Investment in securities 
NA 
Nil 
NA
2 
Receivables 
NA 
Nil 
NA
3 
Payables 
NA 
Nil 
NA
4 
Shares held by struck off Company 
NA 
Nil 
NA
5 
Other outstanding balances (to be specified) 
NA 
Nil 
NA
 
As on 31st March 2022: 
 
 
 
1 
Investment in securities 
NA 
Nil 
NA
2 
Receivables 
NA 
Nil 
NA
3 
Payables 
NA 
Nil 
NA
4 
Shares held by struck off Company 
NA 
Nil 
NA
5 
Other outstanding balances (to be specified) 
NA 
Nil 
NA
1 
Promoters 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
2 
Directors 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
3 
KMPs 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
4 
Related Parties 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Total 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
(B) Loans / Advance in the nature of loan - without specifying any terms or period of repayment: 
(` in Crores) 
Sr. No
Sr. No
As on 31st March 2023
As on 31st March 2022
Type of Borrowers
Amount 
Outstanding - 
Gross Carrying 
Amount
% of Total Loan 
and Advance in 
the Nature of 
Loan
Amount 
Outstanding - 
Gross Carrying 
Amount
% of Total Loan 
and Advance in 
the Nature of 
Loan
Relationship with struck 
off company if any
Balance 
Outstanding
Nature of 
transaction
Nature of transaction
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Note 51 ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION DISCLOSURES 
...
(continued )
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
273
Note 52 
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES
Note 52.1 Details of Crypto Currency or Virtual Currency
 
The company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
Note 52.2 Undisclosed Income
 
There is no transaction, which has not been recorded in books of accounts, that has been surrendered or disclosed as 
income during the year in tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
Note 53 
RATIO ANALYSIS
Sr. No
Reason for significant 
variance (25% or more)
Variance
%
FY 
2021-22
FY 
2022-23
Denominator
Numerator
Particulars
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Current Liabilities (Excl. 
Customer deposits)
Shareholder’s Equity
Interest on borrowings 
+ Principal Repayments 
(routine installments)
Revenue from 
operations
Average Shareholder’s 
Equity
Avg. Capital 
Employed=Tangible Net 
Worth + Total Debt + 
Deferred Tax Liability
Average investment
Average Inventory 
(Natural Gas)
Average Trade 
Receivable
Average Trade Payables 
(Gas Purchase+ 
Transmission)
Working Capital
 
 1.40  
 1.17  
20%
 
 -    
0.08 
-100%
 
 -    
 13.49  
-100%
 
9% 
8% 
15%
 
24% 
25% 
-5%
 
29% 
28% 
3%
 
14% 
5% 
166%
  781.48  
 924.77  
-15%
 
 16.29  
 18.66  
-13%
 
 32.88  
 44.16  
-26%
 
 30.35  
 81.61  
-63%
 -   
Debt Equity ratio has improved 
due to prepayments/ repayment 
of Borrowings during the year and 
increase in total equity due to 
current year profits.There is no 
outstanding debt as on 31st 
March 2023.
Debt Service Coverage Ratio has 
improved due to prepayments/ 
repayment of Borrowings during 
the year .There is no outstanding 
debt as on 31st March 2023.
 -   
 -   
 -   
Mainly on account of increase in 
fair valuation of investments
 -   
 -   
Increase in trade payables while 
total purchase cost is at par with 
last year.
Increase in working capital while 
annual turnover is at par with last 
year.
Current Ratio 
(times)
Debt-Equity 
Ratio  (times)
Debt Service 
Coverage Ratio  
(times)
Net profit ratio 
(%)
Return on Equity 
Ratio (%)
Return on 
Capital 
employed (%)
Return on 
investment (%)- 
unquoted
Inventory 
turnover ratio
Trade 
Receivables 
turnover ratio
Trade payables 
turnover ratio
Net capital 
turnover ratio
Current Assets
Debt consists of 
borrowings
Earning for Debt 
Service = Net Profit 
after taxes + Non-
cash expenses / 
adjustment + Interest 
-Lease payments
Net Profit after tax
Net Profits after taxes 
– Preference Dividend 
(if any)
Profit before tax + 
Interest on borrowings
Income generated 
from investments
Cost of goods sold or 
sales
Net Credit Sales
Net Credit Purchases 
(Gas purchase + 
Transmission)
Revenue from 
operations
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
274
Note 53 
RATIO ANALYSIS ( Continued…..) 
 
Ratio Analysis for previous financial year 2021-22 
Sr. No
Reason for significant 
variance (25% or more)
Variance
%
FY 
2020-21
FY 
2021-22
Denominator
Numerator
Particulars
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Current Liabilities (Excl. 
Customer deposits)
Shareholder’s Equity
Interest on borrowings 
+ Principal Repayments 
(routine installments)
Revenue from 
operations
Average Shareholder’s 
Equity
Avg. Capital 
Employed=Tangible Net 
Worth + Total Debt + 
Deferred Tax Liability
Average investment
Average Inventory 
(Natural Gas)
Average Trade 
Receivable
Average Trade Payables 
(Gas Purchase+ 
Transmission)
Working Capital
 
 1.17  
 1.08  
9%
 
0.08 
0.20 
-58%
 
 13.49  
 8.01  
69%
 
8% 
13% 
-39%
 
25% 
33% 
-22%
 
28% 
31% 
-9%
 
5% 
5% 
-3%
  924.77  
 591.67  
56%
 
 18.66  
 13.95  
34%
 
 44.16  
 25.33  
74%
 
 81.61  
 102.39  
-20%
 -   
Debt Equity ratio has improved 
due to prepayments/repayment 
of Borrowings during the year and 
increase in total equity due to 
current year profits.
Debt Equity ratio has improved 
due to prepayments/repayment 
of Borrowings during the year and 
reduction in interest rates.
While Net profit is at par with last 
year, it has reduced in %age 
terms, due to increase in turnover.
 -   
 -   
 -   
While average inventory levels 
have remained in line with last 
year, higher cost of gas has led to 
increased turnover ratio.
Increase in trade receivables is 
lower than increase in turnover
Increase in trade payables is lower 
than increase in gas purchase 
cost
 -  
Current Ratio 
(times)
Debt-Equity 
Ratio  (times)
Debt Service 
Coverage Ratio  
(times)
Net profit ratio 
(%)
Return on Equity 
Ratio (%)
Return on 
Capital 
employed (%)
Return on 
investment (%)- 
unquoted
Inventory 
turnover ratio
Trade 
Receivables 
turnover ratio
Trade payables 
turnover ratio
Net capital 
turnover ratio
Current Assets
Debt consists of 
borrowings
Earning for Debt 
Service = Net Profit 
after taxes + Non-
cash expenses / 
adjustment + Interest 
-Lease payments
Net Profit after tax
Net Profits after taxes 
– Preference Dividend 
(if any)
Profit before tax + 
Interest on borrowings
Income generated 
from investments
Cost of goods sold or 
sales
Net Credit Sales
Net Credit Purchases 
(Gas purchase + 
Transmission)
Revenue from 
operations
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
275
Note 54 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EXPENDITURE
 
 
As per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, a company needs to spend at least 2% of its average net profit for the 
immediately preceding three financial years on corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities.  A CSR committee has been 
formed by the company as per the Act. CSR expenditure contains the following:
1 
Gross amount required to be spent by the  
 
 31.03  
  
23.54 
 
company during the year.
2 
Amount approved by the Board to be  
 
 31.03  
  
23.54 
 
spent during the year
3 
Amount of expenditure incurred on: 
 
 
 
 
(i) Construction/acquisition of any asset 
 
 - 
 
-   
 
(ii) On purposes other than (i) above 
 
 19.08  
  
19.14 
4 
The amount of shortfall at the end of the year out 
 
 11.95  
  
4.40 
 
 of the amount required to be spent by the Company 
 
during the year
5 
Amount transferred to unspent CSR Account  
 
 11.95  
  
4.40 
 
related to ongoing projects 
6 
The total of previous years’ shortfall amounts 
 
4.40 
 
-   
7 
The reason for above shortfalls (if any) 
Pertains to an ongoing project Pertains to an ongoing project
 
 
of Radio Diagnostic Services, of Radio Diagnostic Services 
 
 
Tertiary Care, Research on 
 
 
 green hygrogen & Biogas 
8 
Details of related party transactions in relation  
 
 - 
 
-   
 
to CSR expenditure 
9 
Nature of CSR activities undertaken by the Company 
 Preventive Health care /  
Preventive Health care / 
 
 
 Disaster  management,   
Disaster  management, 
 
 
Health Care, Environment,  
 Health Care, Environment, 
 
 
 Community Development, 
Community Development,  
 
 
 Eradication of Hunger /  
Eradication of Hunger / 
 
 
Malnutrition, Research on  
Malnutrition
 
 
 green hygrogen & Biogas 
10 
Provision for CSR Expenses: 
 
 
 
 
 
Opening Balance 
 
 4.40  
 
 -   
 
 
Add: Provision created during the period 
 
 11.95  
 
 4.40 
 
 
Less: Provision utilised during the period 
 
 -    
 
 -   
 
Closing Balance 
 
 16.35  
 
 4.40 
11 
Prepaid CSR Expenses ( excess spent): 
 
 
 
 
Opening Balance 
 
-    
 
 -   
 
 
Add: Excess amount spent during the year 
 
 0.28  
 
 -   
 
 
Less: Set off during the year 
 
 -    
 
 -   
 
Closing Balance ( Available for set off  
  
0.28  
 
 -   
 
in succeeding years)
12 
Total amount recognised in Statement of  
 
 31.03  
 
 23.54
 
Profit and Loss
Sr. No
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
Particulars 
(  in Crores)
`
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
276
Details of expenditure incurred for CSR activities : 
(` in Crores) 
1 
Contribution to Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research  
6.48  
 -   
 
Centre, Ahmedabad (IKDRC) towards One Gujarat One Dialysis
 
 Programme (Preventive Healthcare) 
 
 
 
2 
Contribution to U. N. Mehta Institute of Cardiology & Research Centre 
5.89  
 -
 
 (UNMICRC) towards Robotic Surgery Systems for Cardio Thoracic 
 
and Vascular Surgery (Preventive Healthcare) 
 
 
    
3 
Providing gas(in kind) to Crematoriums (Environment / Community  
 6.17  
 6.05 
 
Development)
4 
Contribution to Gujarat CSR Authority & IKDRC towards Project on  
0.28  
 -   
 
developing a computer navigation system for assisting total knee
 
 joint arthroplasty (Research & Development) 
 
 
 
5 
Contribution to U. N. Mehta Institute of Cardiology & Research  
0.11  
 -   
 
Centre (UNMICRC) towards project on Papeless ICU setup 
 
(Preventive Healthcare) 
 
 
 
6 
Contribution to Zeal education trust to support "Learning by doing"  
0.12  
 -   
 
project at schools in rural arears (Education) 
 
 
 
7 
Providing gas(in kind) towards Nondhara no aadhar project  
0.01  
 0.01 
 
(Eradication of Hunger / Malnutrition) 
 
 
 
8 
Contribution to support Mobile Health screening van 
0.02  
 0.08 
 
(Preventive Healthcare) 
 
 
 
9 
Contribution to Gujarat University Consultancy Foundation to  
-    
 10.00 
 
support Covid care hospital (Preventive Healthcare / Disaster 
 
Management) 
 
 
 
10 
Contribution to Gujarat CSR Authority to support Oxygen plant  
-    
 3.00 
 
(Preventive Healthcare / Disaster Management) 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 19.08  
 19.14 
Sr. No
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
Particular of Expenditure during the year
Note 55 SEGMENT REPORTING
The Company primarily operates in the segment of Natural Gas Business. Natural gas business involves distribution of gas 
from sources of supply to centres of demand and to the end customers. The Managing Director of the Company allocate 
resources and assess the performance of the Company, thus are the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The CODM 
monitors the operating results of the business as a one, hence no separate segment needs to be disclosed.  
Information about products and service:
The Company is in a single line of business of Sale of Natural Gas.
Information about geographical areas:
1. The Company does not have geographical distribution of revenue outside India and hence segmentwise disclosure is 
not applicable to the Company.
2. None of the Company's assets are located outside India hence segmentwise disclosure is not applicable to the 
Company.     
Information about major customers:
None of the customer account for more than 10% of the total revenue of the Company.
Note 56 ACCOUNTING FOR BUSINESS COMBINATION TRANSACTIONS
 BUSINESS TRANSFER AGREEMENT FOR GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS OF AMRITSAR AND BHATINDA (PUNJAB) 
Pursuant to the approval by the Board of Directors on 1st June 2021, the Company had executed Business Transfer 
Agreement (BTA) on 26th October 2021 to transfer / purchase of City Gas Distribution (CGD) Business of Amritsar and 
Bhatinda Geographical Areas  from Gujarat State Petronet Limited (GSPL, a holding company) to Gujarat Gas Limited 
(GGL, the Company) for cash consideration of ` 153.86 Crores (` 164.58 Crore Business valuation determined based on 
an independent valuation less ` 10.72 Crore working capital adjustment) and the Company has completed the above 
transfer of business as per BTA with effect from 1st November 2021.
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Note 54 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EXPENDITURE ( Continued…..)
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
277
Note 56.1 Accounting treatment of the Business transfer arrangement 
 
Accordingly in the financial year 2021 - 22, Business combination transaction between the common control entities, 
GSPL (Holding Company) and GGL (Subsidiary Company) had been recorded in the books of the Company in accordance 
with Appendix C – ‘Business combinations of entities under common control’ of Ind AS 103 – ‘Business Combinations’ 
using the pooling of interests method which involves the following:-
1. In the previous financial year, the financial information in the financial statements in respect of prior periods was 
restated as if the business combination had occurred from the beginning of the preceding period in the financial 
statements, irrespective of the actual date of the combination. Accordingly, business combinations was accounted 
with effect from 1st April, 2020. Accordingly figures for the year ended March 31 2021 were reinstated after giving 
effect to the Business transfer arrangement. The obligation to pay consideration in cash was recognised as a liability in 
the comparative financial year.  
 
2. The Company had recorded the asset, liabilities and accumulated losses of the City Gas Distribution (CGD) Business 
of GSPL pursuant to this arrangement at the respective book values appearing in the books of GSPL.  
3. No adjustments were made to reflect fair values and only adjustments are recorded to harmonise accounting policies 
and intercompany eliminations. 
 
4. The difference between aggregated book value of net assets acquired, accumulated loss of the CGD business and 
deferred tax recognised on acquisition and consideration paid by the Company to GSPL was transferred to negative 
capital reserve.  Detailed working of the same is given hereunder:
Summary of purchase consideration and assets taken over accounted in the books is given:- 
    (` in Crores) 
1 
Purchase consideration Valuation of Assets (determined based on an independentvaluation) 
 164.58 
2 
Net working capital adjustments 
 (10.72)
3 
Net Purchase consideration after adjusting net working capital adjustments 
 153.86 
4 
Total net assets acquired 
 100.25 
5 
Excess of purchase consideration over net assets transferred Adjusted against below Reserves:- 
 53.61 
 
Retained Earnings (Accumulated Losses) 
 15.84 
 
Capital reserve (Negative) - Gross 
 37.77 
 
Capital reserve (Negative) - Net off Deferred tax assets of ` 13.79 Crores 
 23.98 
Sr. No
Amount
Particulars 
For the period from  
1st April 2021 to
31st October 2021
Sr. 
No. Particulars 
1 
Revenue 
 
 
 
(a) Revenue from Operations 
 
 
26.80
 
(b) Other Income (Income Elimination) 
 
 
 (3.22)
 
Total Income 
 
 
23.58
2 
Expenses 
 
 
 
 
(a) Cost of materials consumed 
 
 
17.57
 
(b) Changes in inventories  
 
 
 (0.26)
 
(c) Finance costs 
 
 
0.27
 
(d) Depreciation and Amortization Expenses 
 
 
2.08
 
(e) Excise duty expense 
 
 
5.05
 
(f) Other expenses 
 
 
9.58
 
Total Expenses 
 
 
34.29
3 
Profit/(Loss) Before Tax 
 
 
 (10.71)
4 
Tax expense : 
 
 
 
 
Current Tax 
 
 
 (2.11)
 
Deferred Tax 
 
 
 (2.77)
 
Total Tax expenses  
 
 
 (4.88)
5 
Net Profit/(Loss) after tax 
 
 
 (5.83)
Note 56.2 In the current financial year, disclosures related to the transation affecting previous financial year 2021 - 22 
have been given. Accordingly, the following figures of revenue and directly attributable expenses of Amritsar & Bhatinda 
GA are disclosed hereunder: 
    (` in Crores) 
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
278
% of ownership
Carrying Amount
31st March 
2022
31st March 
2022
31st March 
2023
31st March 
2023
Principal 
Activity
% of 
ownership 
interest
Place of 
business
Place of 
business
Relationship
Relations
hip
Accounting 
method
Name of Entity
Name of Entity
Gujarat Gas Limited Employees  
India 
ESOP Trust 
100% sole controlled  
100% 
100%
Welfare Stock Option Trust 
 
 
entity 
 
 
 
Guj Info Petro Limited (GIPL)* 
India 
49.94% 
Associate 
Equity Method 
 32.37  
 29.67 
Total equity accounted investments  
 
 
 
 32.37  
 29.67 
Note 57 RECLASSIFICATION OF COMPARATIVE FIGURES
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to the comparative period's financial statements to: 
 
 
- enhance comparability and ensure consistency with the current year’s financial statements; and
 
- ensure compliance with the Guidance Note on Division II - Ind AS Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013." 
 
 
The Company believes that such presentation is more relevant for understanding of the Company’s performance. However, this 
does not have any impact on the profit, equity and cash flow statement for the comparative period. 
Note 58 EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
 
The Company evaluates events and transactions that occur subsequent to the balance sheet date but prior to approval of the 
financial statements to determine the necessity for recognition and/or reporting of any of these events and transactions in the 
financial statements. As on date of approval of these financial statements, there are no subsequent events to be recognized or 
reported that are not already disclosed. 
 
Note 59 INTEREST IN OTHER ENTITIES 
 
a) 100% sole controlled entity 
 
 
Set out below is the 100% sole controlled entity of the Company as at 31st March 2023. The country of incorporation or 
registration is also their principal place of business.
 
b) Associates
 
Set out below is the associate of the Company as at 31st March 2023 which, in the opinion of the directors, are material to the 
Company. The entity listed below has share capital consisting solely of equity shares, which are held directly by the Company. 
The country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of business, and the proportion of ownership interest is 
the same as the proportion of voting rights held.
* Unlisted entity - no quoted price available
GIPL is primarily engaged in the marketing, selling value distribution of internet bandwidth and added services like web hosting, 
designing, development & maintenance of websites, IT consultancy services, software development, server co-location, mailing 
solutions, operation & maintenance of systems/networks, trading in hardware equipments, facility management services etc. to 
various organisations across Gujarat.
*Not included in group contingent liabilities as per group accounting policy.
 
  Particulars 
As at 31st  
As at 31st 
 
 
March 2023 
March 2022
 
  Contingent liabilities - associates 
 
  For direct tax 
 0.11  
 0.11 
 
  Performance guarantee* 
 0.17  
 1.04 
 
  Bank guarantee & Corporate guarantee* 
 -    
 0.10
 
  Total commitments and contingent liabilities 
 0.28  
 1.25 
(  in Crores)
`
(  in Crores)
`
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
Commitments and contingent liabilities in respect of associates
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
279
GIPL
GIPL
GIPL
31st March 2022
31st March 2022
31st March 2022
31st March 2023
31st March 2023
31st March 2023
Particulars 
Particulars 
Particulars 
Non-current assets 
 4.08  
 4.88 
Current Assets 
 70.99  
 65.48 
Non-current liabilities 
 2.51  
 2.14 
Current liabilities 
 7.75  
 8.82 
Net Assets (Assets - Liabilities) 
 64.81  
 59.40 
Net assets 
64.81 
59.40
Company's Share in % 
49.94% 
49.94%
Company's Share in INR 
 32.37  
 29.67 
Carrying amount 
 32.37  
 29.67
Revenue 
 27.38  
 22.14 
Profit / (Loss) for the year 
 5.73  
 3.26 
Other comprehensive income 
 (0.32) 
 (0.04)
Total comprehensive income 
 5.41  
 3.22 
Dividend received (Current year Nil, Previous year Nil) 
 -    
 -   
Note 59 INTEREST IN OTHER ENTITIES (Continued….)
Summarised financial information for associate 
 
 
The tables below provide summarised financial information for those associates that are material to the Company. The 
information disclosed reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant associates and not the 
Company’s share of those amounts. They have been amended to reflect adjustments made by the entity when using the equity 
method, including fair value adjustments made at the time of acquisition and modifications for differences in accounting policies.
Reconciliation to carrying amounts 
(  in Crores)
`
Summarised statement of profit and loss 
(  in Crores)
`
(  in Crores)
`
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
280
Note 60 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REQUIRED BY SCHEDULE III 
 (` in Crores)
  
 
As % of 
Amount 
As % of 
Amount 
As % of Amount 
As % of 
Amount 
  
 
consolid- 
 consolid- 
 
other 
 
total 
  
 
ated net 
 
ated 
 compreh 
 compreh
  
 
assets 
 profit or 
 
-ensive 
 
-ensive
  
 
 
 
Loss 
 
 income 
 
income
 A  Parent 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Gujarat Gas Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
31 March 2023 
99.54%  6,995.61  99.81%  1,525.47  101.91% 
 8.52  
99.82%  1,533.99 
  
31 March 2022 
99.46%  5,599.30  99.87%  1,285.64  100.37% 
 2.69  
99.87%  1,288.33 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 B 
Subsidiaries/ 100% sole 
  
controlled entity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) Indian 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Gujarat Gas Limited Employees
  
 Welfare Stock Option Trust 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
31 March 2023 
0.00% 
0.00 
0.00% 
 0.05  
 -    
 -    
0.00% 
 0.05 
  
31 March 2022 
0.02% 
0.99 
0.01% 
 0.11  
 -    
 -    
0.01% 
 0.11 
 (ii) Foreign 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
  
Non-controlling interest in all  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
  
subsidiaries 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 C Associates (Investments as  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
per the equity method) 
 
 
 (i) Indian 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Guj Info Petro Limited (GIPL) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
31 March 2023 
0.46% 
 32.34  
0.19% 
 2.86  
-1.91% 
 (0.16) 
0.18% 
 2.70 
  
31 March 2022 
0.53% 
 29.64  
0.13% 
 1.62  
-0.37% 
 (0.01) 
0.12% 
 1.61 
 (ii) Foreign 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 D Joint Ventures (Investments 
  
 as per the equity method) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) Indian 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 (ii) Foreign 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
  
Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
31 March 2023 
100%  7,027.95  
100%  1,528.38  
100% 
 8.36  
100%  1,536.74 
  
31 March 2022 
100%  5,629.93  
100%  1,287.37  
100% 
 2.68  
100%  1,290.05
Sr. 
no.
Name of the entity
in the group
Net assets (total 
assets minus total 
liabilities)
Share in profit or 
(loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive 
income
Share in total 
comprehensive 
income
Note 61 PREVIOUS YEAR FIGURES 
 
Previous year's figures have been regrouped or reclassified wherever necessary to confirm to the current period's presentation. 
The Accompanying Notes (1-61) are an integral part of the financial Statements.
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
As per our report attached 
For Manubhai & Shah LLP 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of Gujarat Gas Limited  
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Reg. No. – 106041W/W100136
K.B. Solanki 
Raj Kumar, IAS   
Milind Torawane, IAS  
 Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)
Partner  
Chairman               
Managing Director   
 Director
M. No. : 110299 
DIN - 00294527     
DIN - 03632394   
 DIN- 00023872  
 
 
 
 
Nitesh Bhandari         
 Sandeep Dave
 
 
 
  
Chief Financial Officer   
 Company Secretary
Place :  Gandhinagar 
 
 
 Place :  Gandhinagar 
Date : 10th May, 2023 
 
 
 Date : 10th May, 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
GUJARAT GAS LIMITED
281
Guj Info Petro Limited
Particulars 
1. Latest audited Balance Sheet Date 
 31-03-2023 
2. Shares of Associate held by the company on the year end 
 25,000  
 
Amount of Investment in Associate 
 0.03  
 
Extend of Holding % 
 49.94% 
3. Description of how there is significant influence 
 Through voting power 
4. Reason why the associate is not consolidated 
 NA 
5. Networth attributable to Shareholding as per latest audited Balance Sheet 
 As per Ind-AS-28 equity method is followed 
6. Profit / (Loss) for the year 
 
i.  Considered in Consolidation 
 2.70  
ii.  Not Considered in Consolidation 
 -   
Form - AOC 1 
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries/associate companies/joint ventures 
(Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013)
Part "A": Subsidiaries
Not Applicable
Part "B": Associates
(  in Crores)
`
As per our report attached 
For Manubhai & Shah LLP 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of Gujarat Gas Limited  
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Reg. No. – 106041W/W100136
K.B. Solanki 
Raj Kumar, IAS   
Milind Torawane, IAS  
 Balwant Singh, IAS (Retd.)
Partner  
Chairman               
Managing Director   
 Director
M. No. : 110299 
DIN - 00294527     
DIN - 03632394   
 DIN- 00023872  
 
 
 
 
Nitesh Bhandari         
 Sandeep Dave
 
 
 
  
Chief Financial Officer   
 Company Secretary
Place :  Gandhinagar 
 
 
 Place :  Gandhinagar 
Date : 10th May, 2023 
 
 
 Date : 10th May, 2023
2022-2023
th 
11 ANNUAL REPORT
Notes to Consolidated financial statements for the year ended on 31st March 2023
