 
1st September 2023. 
 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited, 
“Exchange Plaza”, 
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), 
Mumbai-400051. 
BSE Limited, 
P.J. Towers, 
Dalal Street, 
Mumbai-400001. 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.: Annual Report for the financial year 2022-23 along with the Notice convening the 
Twenty Eighth Annual General Meeting. 
 
Ref.: 
Regulation 34 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the “Listing Regulations”). 
 
Enclosed please find the copy of the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year 2022-23 
along with the copy of the Notice convening the Twenty Eighth Annual General Meeting (the “AGM” 
or the “Meeting”) of the Company on Wednesday, 27th September 2023 at 11.00 a.m. (IST) through 
Video Conferencing / Other Audio Visual Means (“VC / OAVM”) in compliance with the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with Circular No.14/2020 dated 8th April 2020, Circular No.17/2020 dated 13th April 
2020, Circular No.20/2020 dated 5th May 2020, Circular No.2/2021 dated 13th January 2021, Circular 
No.19/2021 dated 8th December 2021, Circular No.2/2022 dated 5th May 2022 and Circular 
No.10/2022 dated 28th December 2022 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA 
Circulars”) and Circular No.SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4 dated 5th January 2023, Circular 
No.SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 
dated 
12th 
May 
2020, 
Circular 
No.SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 
dated 
15th 
January 
2021 
and 
Circular 
No.SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated 13th May 2022 issued by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (“SEBI”) (“SEBI Circulars”) (MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars are hereinafter 
collectively referred to as the “Circulars”) to transact the business as set out in the Notice of the AGM 
dated 31st August 2023 (the “AGM Notice”).  
 
KFin Technologies Limited, Selenium, Tower B, Plot 31 & 32, Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally Mandal, Hyderabad-500032, Telangana, India, Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com; 
Toll Free No.1-800-309-4001, the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents (“KFin” or the 
“RTA”), will provide the facility for voting through remote e-voting, participating the Meeting 
through VC / OAVM and e-voting during the Meeting. 
 
The Company has, on 1st September 2023, sent the AGM Notice along with the Annual Report 
containing the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31st March 2023 on 
standalone and consolidated basis and the Reports of the Auditors and the Directors (together with 
annexures thereto) by email to all its shareholders who have registered their email addresses with the 
Company / RTA or the depositories. In compliance with the requirements of the Circulars, physical 
copy of the same is not being sent to the shareholders.  
 
The Annual Report along with the AGM Notice and E-voting instructions is also available on the 
website of the Company (www.suzlon.com) and the weblink of KFin (https://evoting.kfintech.com). 
 
The procedure for registering email address, remote e-voting, attending the Meeting through VC / 
OAVM, and e-voting during the Meeting is given below: 
 
 
 
A. Instructions for Members who have not registered their email address:  
 
Shareholders holding shares in physical mode are hereby notified that based on SEBI Circular 
No.SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/37 dated 16th March 2023, all holders of physical 
securities in listed companies shall register the postal address along with PIN for their corresponding 
folio numbers. It shall be mandatory for the security holders to provide mobile number. Moreover, to 
avail online services, the security holders can register their email IDs. Shareholders can register / 
update the contact details through submitting the requisite Form ISR-1 along with the supporting 
documents. 
Form 
ISR-1 
can 
be 
obtained 
by 
clicking 
on 
the 
link 
https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/default.aspx. Form ISR-1 and the supporting documents can 
be provided by any one of the following modes: 
a) 
Through ‘In Person Verification’ (IPV), the authorised person of KFin shall verify the original 
documents furnished by the shareholder and retain copy(ies) with IPV stamping with date and 
initials; 
b) 
Through hard copies which are self-attested, which can be shared on the address of KFin; 
c) 
Through 
electronic 
mode 
with 
e-sign 
by 
following 
the 
link 
https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/default.aspx. 
Detailed FAQs are available on KFin’s weblink https://ris.kfintech.com/faq.html. 
 
B. Instructions pertaining to remote e-voting: 
 
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013, Rule 20 of the 
Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, Regulation 
44 of the Listing Regulations, read with SEBI circular no.SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 
dated 9th December 2020 relating to ‘e-voting Facility Provided by Listed Entities’ (“SEBI e-voting 
Circular”), the Company is providing the facility to the members to exercise their right to vote on 
proposed resolutions electronically means through e-voting services arranged by KFin. The following 
information is being provided to the members in respect of remote e-voting: 
i. 
Members may cast their votes on all resolutions set out in the AGM Notice using an electronic 
voting system from a place other than the venue of the Meeting (“remote e-voting”).  Remote e-
voting is optional. 
ii. The cut-off date for the purpose of ascertaining shareholders entitled for remote e-voting 
and voting at the Meeting is Wednesday, 20th September 2023 (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Cut-off Date”). A person, whose name is recorded in the Register of Members or in the Register 
of Beneficial Owners maintained by the Depositories as on the Cut-off Date only shall be entitled 
to avail the facility of remote e-voting as well as voting at the Meeting. The voting rights of 
members shall be in proportion to their shares in the paid up equity share capital of the Company 
(as reflected in depository records) as on the Cut-off Date. A person who is not a shareholder as 
on the Cut-off Date should treat this Notice for information purpose only. 
iii. The remote e-voting period commences from Sunday, 24th September 2023 (9.00 a.m. IST) 
upto Tuesday, 26th September 2023 (5.00 p.m. IST). During this period, the members of the 
Company holding fully paid-up and partly paid-up shares, either in physical form or in demat 
form, as on the Cut-off Date may cast their vote by remote e-voting. The remote e-voting module 
shall be disabled by KFin for voting thereafter. Once the vote on a resolution is cast by a member, 
whether partially or otherwise, the member shall not be allowed to change it subsequently or cast 
the vote again. Members, who cast their vote by remote e-voting, may attend the Meeting through 
VC / OAVM, but will not be entitled to cast their vote once again on the resolutions. 
iv. Any person, who acquires shares of the Company and becomes a member of the Company after 
the despatch of the AGM Notice and is holding shares as on the Cut-off date, may obtain the User 
ID and Password in the manner as mentioned below: 
 
 
If the mobile number of the member is registered against Folio No. / DP ID Client ID, the 
member may send SMS: MYEPWD<space>E-voting Event Number (EVEN) + Folio No. or 
DP ID Client ID to + 91 9212993399 
Example for NSDL       : MYEPWD<SPACE>IN12345612345678 
Example for CDSL       : MYEPWD<SPACE>1402345612345678 
Example for Physical    : MYEPWD<SPACE>XXXX1234567890 
 
If email ID of the member is registered against Folio No. / DP ID Client ID, then on the 
homepage of https://evoting.kfintech.com, the member may click “Forgot password” and 
enter Folio No. or DP ID Client ID and PAN to generate a password. 
 
Members may send an email request to evoting@kfintech.com. If the member is already 
registered with the KFin e-voting platform then such member can use his / her existing User 
ID and password for casting the vote through remote e-voting. 
 
If email ID or mobile number of the member is not registered against Folio No. / DP ID 
Client ID, then kindly refer to “Instructions for members who have not registered their email 
address” given at Point A above. 
v. In terms of SEBI e-voting Circular, e-voting process has been enabled for all ‘individual demat 
account holders’, by way of a single login credential, through their demat accounts / websites of 
Depositories / Depository Participant(s) (“DP”). 
vi. The detailed instructions for remote e-voting are given in the AGM Notice available on the 
website of the Company (www.suzlon.com), the weblink of KFin (https://evoting.kfintech.com) 
and also on the website of the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (www.nseindia.com) 
and the BSE Limited (www.bseindia.com). 
 
C. Instructions pertaining to attending the Meeting through VC / OAVM and for voting at the 
Meeting: 
i. 
Members will be able to attend the Meeting through VC / OAVM or view the live webcast of 
the Meeting at https://emeetings.kfintech.com/ by using their remote e-voting login 
credentials and selecting the “EVEN” for the Company’s Meeting.  
ii. Members who do not have the User ID and Password for e-voting or have forgotten the User 
ID and Password may retrieve the same by following the remote e-voting instructions 
mentioned in the AGM Notice. Further, members can also use the OTP based login for 
logging into the e-voting system. 
iii. Facility of joining the Meeting through VC / OAVM shall open 30 (thirty) minutes before the 
time scheduled for the Meeting and shall be kept open throughout the Meeting. Members will 
be able to participate in the Meeting through VC / OAVM on a first-come-first-serve basis. 
Up to 1,000 shareholders will be able to join the Meeting on a first-come-first-serve basis. 
iv. Members, holding shares as on the Cut-off date and who would like to speak or express their 
views or ask questions during the Meeting may register themselves as speakers at 
https://emeetings.kfintech.com and clicking on “Speaker Registration” during the period from 
Sunday, 24th September 2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) up to Tuesday, 26th September 2023 (5.00 p.m. 
IST). Those members who have registered themselves as a speaker will only be allowed to 
speak / express their views / ask questions during the Meeting. The Company reserves the 
right to restrict the number of questions and number of speakers, as appropriate for smooth 
conduct of the Meeting. 
v. The procedure for e-voting during the Meeting is same as the procedure for remote e-voting 
since the Meeting is being held through VC / OAVM. The e-voting window shall be activated 
upon instructions of the Chairman of the Meeting during the Meeting. E-voting during the 
Meeting is integrated with the VC / OAVM platform and no separate login is required for the 
same. The detailed procedure for remote e-voting, attending the Meeting through VC / 
OAVM and voting at the Meeting has been provided in the AGM Notice. 
 
 
Mr. DSM Ram, Practicing Company Secretary, has been appointed as Scrutinizer to scrutinize the 
remote e-voting process and e-voting at the Meeting in a fair and transparent manner. 
 
In case of any query and / or assistance required, relating to remote e-voting, attending the Meeting 
through VC / OAVM mode and e-voting during the Meeting, members may refer to the Help & 
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and ‘AGM VC / OAVM’ user manual available at the download 
Section of https://evoting.kfintech.com or contact Mr. Ganesh Chandra Patro, Asst. Vice President,  
KFin at the email ID evoting@kfintech.com or KFin’s toll free No.: 1-800-309-4001. 
 
This is for your information as also for the information of your members and the public at large. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For Suzlon Energy Limited 
 
 
Geetanjali S.Vaidya, 
Company Secretary. 
 
 
Encl.: As above. 
 
GEETANJALI 
SANTOSH 
VAIDYA
Digitally signed by GEETANJALI SANTOSH VAIDYA 
DN: c=IN, o=Personal, 
2.5.4.20=1f68fbc13c0b8b3a34b3090cec1d1201ad6a
df5a8af53061cc2ac9ca603245ff, 
postalCode=411030, st=Maharashtra, 
serialNumber=70e6fc9b127e425bb9cb937f96d5775
c420ccc6112295e0fe8056eda8aed1812, 
cn=GEETANJALI SANTOSH VAIDYA 
Date: 2023.09.01 23:11:03 +05'30'
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23
A Tribute to the 
Wind Man of India
In the dynamic realm of Renewable Energy, the legacy of Shri Tulsi R. Tanti stands tall as a 
testament to his visionary leadership. A pioneer, who shaped India’s Sustainable Energy landscape, 
Shri Tanti's contributions left an indelible mark on the global stage. His profound work for renewables 
earned him sobriquets as the 'Wind Man of India' and 'The Father of Indian Renewable Energy.' His 
journey, dedication, and transformative impact not only elevated the Suzlon Group but also ignited 
a worldwide movement towards carbon neutral alternatives.
Shri Tulsi Tanti's unwavering dedication to combatting climate change and his fervent advocacy 
for Renewable Energy made him a formidable force on the international stage. His journey began 
with the establishment of Suzlon Energy in 1995, a turning point that marked the birth of Indian 
Renewables. Under his leadership, Suzlon emerged as India's largest Wind Energy company and 
the only Indian Wind Energy company to be in the top five globally. His recognition as a climate 
champion and Renewable Energy expert extended far beyond the borders of India.
Shri Tanti's journey is one of resilience, enterprise, and a commitment to greater good. Suzlon's 
story is intrinsically linked to his ability to identify opportunities which can affect sustainable change 
across economies and societies. Starting from a textile manufacturing background, he leveraged 
wind power to mitigate high energy costs and irregular supply. His innovative mindset led to the 
establishment of a 3.3 MW wind power plant within a remarkably short timeframe, which continues to 
operate efficiently even today. This marked the beginning of a Renewable Energy revolution in India.
Shri Tulsi Tanti's impact on the industry went beyond conventional boundaries. At a time when 
international players dominated the wind power market, he championed the 'Make in India' ethos.
Suzlon's holistic approach, encompassing R&D, manufacturing, and operations,set new benchmarks 
for the industry. As the company expanded across continents, Shri Tanti remained committed to his 
cause, maintaining a modest lifestyle while propelling the Wind Energy sector forward.
His philosophy was clear: Business should address societal challenges. Shri Tanti believed in 
solving social issues through meaningful business and creating sustainable change for society. His 
perseverance in adopting Wind Energy when it was unheard of in India demonstrated his unwavering 
commitment to his vision. His legacy lives on, with Suzlon installations equivalent to billions of trees 
absorbing CO2 and millions of tons of CO2 emissions prevented annually.
Internationally acclaimed, Shri Tanti received numerous awards and honors, including the prestigious 
'Champion of the Earth' accolade from the United Nations. He strived to promote Renewable 
Energy on global platforms, shaping policy and industry standards. His role extended to numerous 
committees and councils, where he championed sustainable practices and Aatmanirbhar Bharat 
(Self-Reliant India).
Shri Tulsi R. Tanti's journey is a story of vision, determination, and a commitment to creating a 
better world. As India and the world continue to navigate the Renewable Energy landscape, his 
legacy remains an enduring source of inspiration. He has left an indomitable imprint on the sands 
of time, an imprint that will guide generations of entrepreneurs and environmentalists toward a 
more sustainable future. The 'Wind Man of India' may have left us, but his legacy continues to blow 
through the turbines of progress and change.
We, at Suzlon are inspired everyday by our beloved founder’s spirit and are committed to fulfilling 
his vision of creating a better, sustainable world for our future generations.
Shri Tulsi R. Tanti
(1958 - 2022)
In tribute and remembrance,
SUZLON ENERGY LIMITED
The energy installations of 20 GW across the 
globe by Suzlon represent much more than just 
the Company’s business operations. It embodies 
a profound commitment to transforming lives and 
protecting the planet.
This drives the Company into a new phase of 
progress and innovation, unveiling its steadfast 
focus on building a reliable and Sustainable Energy.
As we celebrate our 
20 GW Wind Energy 
installations, we proudly 
continue our journey 
towards transforming energy 
and lives, for a brighter and 
more sustainable future.
Lighting Up Homes and Lives: 
This massive capacity provides clean, 
green electricity which can light up over
~13.08 Million 
households per year
~51.66 Million tonnes of CO2 reduced
1,900+ customers,
Powering Nations:  
Suzlon’s installations have 
the potential to power an 
entire nation like Singapore 
or provide energy to every 
home in places like Hong 
Kong or New Zealand.
A Force Against Climate Change:
With
annually, we play a crucial role in combatting 
climate change and building a sustainable future.
~4.30 Billion trees
Sowing Seeds of a Greener 
Tomorrow: Our impact is 
equivalent to absorbing over
each year, contributing to 
a greener and healthier 
environment.
270 kW to 3.x MW.
Innovation and Excellence:  
We leverage cutting-edge 
onshore wind turbine 
technologies, offering a 
comprehensive portfolio from
12,700+ turbines
Harnessing Nature’s Power: 
Operating
across diverse terrains, we 
harness the wind’s potential 
in deserts, mountains, 
coasts and more.
Empowering Customers: 
Our dedication extends to
empowering them with 
clean energy to embrace 
sustainable practices.
Annual Report 2022-23
04
Company Information
05
Board of Directors
11
Leadership Team
13
Address from the Chairman
and Managing Director
23
Address from
the CEO
30
Key Performance
Indicators FY23
34
Dedicating 20 GW of Wind
Energy to the Nation
44
Products and Solutions
Wind Energy Equipment Solutions \ 46
Product Portfolio \ 47
The New 3 MW Series \ 48
59
Suzlon's Competitive Edge
Research and Development \ 60
Supply Chain Management and 
Manufacturing \ 62
Quality Management \ 66
Health, Safety and Environment \ 67
68
Recognition and Beyond
50
Industries Served
36
About Suzlon
Presence \ 38
Significant Milestones \ 40
Consolidated Financial Highlights \ 42
52
Wind Energy Service Solutions
Value-Added Services & Products \ 54
Multi Brand O&M Services \ 56
70
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report \ 72
Management Discussion and 
Analysis \ 104
Corporate Governance Report \ 124
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report \ 148
358
Notice
190
Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements \ 192
Consolidated Financial Statements \ 274
Contents
Company Information
Late Mr. Tulsi R.Tanti 
(DIN: 00002283) 
(Passed away on October 1, 2022)	
Mr. Vinod R.Tanti 
(DIN: 00002266) 
(appointed as Chairman and 
Managing Director  
w.e.f. October 7, 2022) 
Chairman and Managing Director 
Mr. Girish R.Tanti 
(DIN: 00002603) 
(appointed as Executive Vice Chairman 
w.e.f. October 7, 2022) 
Executive Vice Chairman
Mr. Marc Desaedeleer 
(DIN: 00508623) 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Ashwani Kumar 
(resigned as Chief Executive Officer 
w.e.f. April 5, 2023)
Mr. J. P. Chalasani 
(appointed as Chief Executive Officer 
w.e.f. April 5, 2023)
M/s. Walker Chandiok & Co. LLP 
Firm Registration No.001076N/N500013
3rd Floor, Unit No.309 to 312, 
West Wing, Nyati Unitree, Nagar Road, 
Yerwada, Pune-411006
“Suzlon”, 5, Shrimali Society, 
Near Shri Krishna Complex, 
Navrangpura, Ahmedabad - 380009, 
Gujarat, India
Tel.: +91.79.6604 5000 
Website: www.suzlon.com 
Email: investors@suzlon.com
REC Limited 
Indian Renewable Energy Development 
Agency Limited (IREDA) 
IndusInd Bank Limited
One Earth, Hadapsar, 
Pune - 411028, Maharashtra, India
Tel.:  +91.20.6702 2000 
Fax.: +91.20.6702 2100
KFin Technologies Limited 
(formerly KFin Technologies Private Limited)
Selenium, Tower B, Plot 31 and 32, Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally Mandal, Rangareddi, Hyderabad-500032, Telangana, India
Toll Free No. 1-800-309-4001  |  Website: www.kfintech.com 
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Mr. Himanshu Mody
Mrs. Geetanjali S.Vaidya 
ICSI Membership No.A18026
Board of Directors
SUZLON ENERGY LIMITED | CIN: L40100GJ1995PLC025447
Group Chief Executive Officer
Statutory Auditor
Registered Office
Group Chief Financial Officer
Lenders
Corporate Office
Company Secretary
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
Mr. Per Hornung Pedersen 
(DIN: 07280323) 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Rakesh Sharma 
(DIN: 06695734) 
A nominee of State Bank of India 
(ceased w.e.f. June 8, 2022) 
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Sameer Shah 
(DIN: 08702339) 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mrs. Seemantinee Khot 
(DIN: 07026548) 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Gautam Doshi 
(DIN: 00004612) 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Hiten Timbadia 
(DIN: 00210210) 
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Ajay Mathur 
(DIN: 08805424) 
(appointed as Nominee Director of 
REC Limited w.e.f. August 10, 2022) 
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Pranav T. Tanti 
(DIN: 02957770) 
(appointed as Non-Executive Director 
w.e.f. October 7, 2022) 
Non-Executive Director
Annual Report 2022-23
04
Board of 
Directors
05
Chairman and Managing Director, Suzlon Group
Executive Vice Chairman, Suzlon Group
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti
Mr. Girish R. Tanti
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti, brother of the late Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti 
and the eldest among the remaining siblings, is aged 
60 years and a founding member of Suzlon. He holds 
a Bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering and has 
extensive experience of over 34 years managing 
various key functions at Suzlon. He also served as 
the Chief Operating Officer of Senvion, Germany, 
from June 1, 2012 to June 15, 2013, when Senvion 
was a global leader in wind turbine technology. With 
a strong techno-commercial background, he has 
handled diverse portfolios, including wind resource 
assessment, acquisition, product design, prototyping, 
comprehensive supply management, project execution 
and lifecycle management through operations and 
maintenance services. Mr. Vinod R. Tanti brings to 
Suzlon, his vast experience of the complete Wind 
Energy value chain as well as his process centricity 
and drive for innovation. Under his supervision, Suzlon 
established and continues to maintain its technology 
and service leadership in India.
Mr. Girish R. Tanti, brother of the late Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti 
and youngest among remaining siblings, aged 52 
years, is also a founding member of Suzlon. He holds 
a bachelor’s degree in Electronics & Communication 
Engineering and a master’s degree in Business 
Administration from the UK. With over 27 years of 
experience in renewables and international business, 
Mr. Girish R. Tanti brings a wealth of expertise to Suzlon. 
He possesses a unique blend of insights into technology 
dynamics and strong business acumen. Over the 
years, he has played many roles including incubating 
the Renewable Energy business in 1995, establishing 
technology development centres in Europe and India, 
setting up the global supply chain, developing wind 
markets across India, and establishing global business 
operations and corporate development activities. He 
also led diverse service functions, such as human 
resources, information technology, communications 
and CSR. He has been instrumental in Suzlon’s rise to 
become the sole Wind Energy player from a developing 
nation to rank among the top five worldwide.
Annual Report 2022-23
06
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Pranav T. Tanti
Mr. Marc Desaedeleer
Mr. Pranav T. Tanti is the eldest child of the late 
Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti. He holds an MBA degree from the 
University of Chicago, Booth School of Business and 
a dual honours degree in Business Administration & 
Finance from Keele University, UK. With nearly 20 
years of experience in international business, Pranav 
also possesses extensive expertise in the Renewable 
Energy industry. Throughout his diverse global journey, 
Pranav has worked in major business hubs worldwide, 
including India, China, the US and Hong Kong. Most 
recently Pranav served as the Chief Executive 
Officer of Skeiron Renewable Energy, a company that 
invested in and managed a portfolio of wind turbine 
assets of nearly 400 MW. He founded the company 
and successfully orchestrated fundraising from two 
Hong Kong-based private equity firms. At the peak of 
the market in 2018, Pranav successfully led the exit of 
the portfolio, worth US$ 500 Million. Pranav has also 
previously held executive positions within the Suzlon 
Group, working in both the Chicago and India offices. 
He has also held positions at Merrill Lynch and CLSA in 
the investment banking and equity research divisions 
in Hong Kong and Beijing.
Mr. Marc Desaedeleer retired in early July 2018 from 
TRG (The Rohatyn Group) where he was a partner 
and a member of its Executive Committee. Prior to 
this, he was the Chief Investment Officer of Citigroup 
Venture Capital International (CVCI) Growth Fund 
I and Growth Fund II. These funds, with a focus on 
emerging markets, had respective values of $1.6 
Billion and $4.3 Billion. Before becoming CIO of CVCI, 
he led CVCI’s business in CEEMEA and India from 2001 
to 2005. Earlier in his career, Mr. Marc Desaedeleer 
served as a senior manager in Citibank's Corporate 
Banking division, overseeing more than 20 countries 
with a specific focus on Central Europe and Russia. In 
prior positions within Citigroup, Mr. Marc Desaedeleer 
was Business Manager for Citibank’s Corporate and 
Investment Banking business in France. He managed 
several international businesses within Citibank’s 
Investment Banking group including ADRs, and was 
responsible for Citibank’s strategy in Global Equities. 
Before joining Citigroup, Mr. Marc Desaedeleer 
worked for several international companies like 
Sulzer (Switzerland) and Lisnave (Portugal). Mr. Marc 
Desaedeleer holds an M.B.A. degree from Carnegie 
Mellon University and Masters in Science degree from 
the University of Louvain (Belgium).
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
07
Non-Executive Independent Director
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Per Hornung Pedersen
Mr. Sameer Shah
Mr. Per Hornung Pedersen began his career at Arthur 
Andersen and has more than 40 years of experience in 
various managerial and executive positions, primarily 
with listed companies in the construction, packaging 
and telecom sector. Since 2000, he has been actively 
involved in the renewable sector. He joined the wind 
industry as CFO of NEG Micon/Vestas in 2000 and 
moved to Suzlon in 2004. Under Mr. Pedersen's watch, 
the Company transformed from a strong player in 
India to number five globally. He was also the CEO of 
Repower and succeeded in doubling the turnover to 
1.2 Billion euros and quadrupling EBITA to around 100 
Million euros. He is a senior advisor to McKinsey, Atrium 
Partners, Copenhagen and MCF Corporate Finance, 
Hamburg. He is also the Chairman of PNE AG Germany 
and a Non-Executive Director of Swire Renewables 
UK and Pyrophyte Ltd. Houston. Complementing his 
long experience in business strategy and development 
within the wind industry and renewable sector, 
Mr. Pedersen has many years of international 
experience, managing a diversity of cultures, growth 
and change.
Mr. Sameer Shah has over 35 years of experience. In 
his last employment, he served as the CFO and Head of 
ICT at a Petroleum, Chemicals & Mining Company for 5 
years. Before that, Mr. Sameer Shah worked for 13 years 
with Deutsche Bank as a Managing Director heading 
the Equity Services Business for Asia Pacific and the 
Arabian Gulf countries. He also led the Corporate 
Banking division for Western India from 2009-2011. 
His previous employment was with SABIC in Saudi 
Arabia, Ontario Hydro (Hydro One) in Canada and TCS 
in Mumbai before PCMC and Deutsche Bank. Currently, 
he is an independent strategic planning and finance 
consultant. Mr. Sameer Shah is a qualified Treasurer 
with the Association of Corporate Treasurers in London, 
UK, has an MBA from the University of Rochester, 
New York and a Securities Law diploma from the 
Government Law College, Mumbai. Mr. Sameer Shah 
is also involved with several non-profit organisations 
and actively serves on the Boards of Victoria Literacy 
Connection and Sidney Classical Orchestra. He has 
also volunteered with the Chinmaya Mission, the Sujaya 
Foundation, Jeevan Vikas Ganga Trust and United Way.
Annual Report 2022-23
08
Non-Executive Independent Director
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mrs. Seemantinee Khot
Mr. Gautam Doshi
Ms. Seemantinee Khot, a Bachelor of Arts (Psychology, 
Pune University, 1980) graduate and holder of a MASW 
from Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai (1982), 
possesses a rich experience spanning almost four 
decades in the development sector. Her background 
includes 20 years of direct implementation with 
NGOs, followed by 12 years of Bilateral Aid and UN 
assignments. Furthermore, she has contributed eight 
years to CSR and sustainability consulting.
Mr. Gautam Doshi, a Chartered Accountant with a 
Masters in Commerce, has dedicated over 45 years 
to professional practice. He advises various industrial 
groups and families and holds directorship positions 
on the boards of both listed and unlisted companies. 
Mr. Gautam Doshi has a broad expertise that 
encompasses Mergers and Acquisitions, Direct, Indirect 
and International Taxation, Transfer Pricing, Accounting, 
Corporate and Commercial Laws. He has actively 
participated in conceptualising and implementing 
several mergers and restructuring transactions, both 
domestic and cross-border, involving many of the top 20 
listed companies on the BSE, as well as entities featured 
in the FTSE 100.
He has contributed significantly to the development and 
regulation of the accountancy profession in India. During 
his tenure on the Councils of the Western Region and All 
India levels of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India, he actively participated in committees and played 
a substantial role in the work of the Board of Studies, 
which oversees education and student training. He 
also served as the Chairman of Committees on direct 
and indirect taxation.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
09
Non-Executive Director
Nominee Director of REC Limited
Mr. Hiten Timbadia
Mr. Ajay Mathur
Mr. Hiten Timbadia is a Chartered Accountant by 
profession and has a remarkable 34 years of experience 
in the field of Accounting, Taxation, Auditing, Finance 
and Consultancy. He has been a dedicated partner at 
the esteemed firm M/s. Valia & Timbadia, Chartered 
Accountants, since the year 1990.
Mr. Ajay Mathur holds a degree in AICWA (ICMA) and 
an MBA in Finance (Finance), from Delhi University, and 
has over 30 years of experience in the field of Finance 
& Accounts. Previously he has worked in organisations 
like Steel Authority of India Limited, in various locations 
and capacities in the areas of Corporate Accounts, 
Costing, MIS, Budgeting, etc. Currently, he works in 
REC Limited in the Credit Appraisal Division, looking 
after entity appraisal and related work.
Annual Report 2022-23
10
CEO, SEForge
CEO Global OMS
Mr. Venkat Subramaniam
Mr. Ishwar C. Mangal
Mr. Venkat Subramaniam joined SEForge in March 
2023. He brings with him 27 years of experience in 
the automotive and engineering sectors. He has held 
various roles in manufacturing and has overseen the 
complete value chain. His expertise in organisational 
transformation and understanding human behaviour 
has resulted in increased engagement and the 
formation of strong teams.
Mr. Ishwar C. Mangal, who joined Suzlon in 1996, has 
an experience of 27 years and played a significant 
role in the growth of Suzlon and development of 
the Wind Energy market in India. He headed the 
business development, sales, projects and OTC and is 
currently responsible for Global OMS (Operations & 
Maintenance Services).
Leadership Team
Group CEO
Group CFO
Mr. J. P. Chalasani
Mr. Himanshu Mody
Mr. JP Chalasani, with over 40 years of experience in 
India's power sector, is renowned for his exceptional 
project management and people leadership skills. He 
joined Suzlon Group in April 2016 as CEO, transitioned 
to a Strategic Advisor role with the group in July 2020 
and was re-appointed as group CEO in April 2023. 
He worked at NTPC, Reliance Power and Punj Lloyd.
Mr. Himanshu Mody has over 22 years of expertise in 
Finance & Strategy, specialising in Corporate Finance, 
M&A, Fund Raising and Financial Restructuring. Notably, 
he spent more than a decade as Group CFO at Essel 
Group, spearheading fundraising, M&A initiatives and 
strategic business decisions. Himanshu joined Suzlon 
in August 2021, as Group CFO with the purpose of 
strengthening the fundamentals of the company.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
11
CTO
Group CHRO
Company Secretary
Mr. Bernhard Telgmann
Mr. Rajendra Mehta
Mrs. Geetanjali S.Vaidya
Mr. Bernhard Telegmann has more than 28 years of 
experience across engineering, thermal power plants 
and consulting in fuel cells and Wind Energy. His 
expertise shines in the realm of global technology-
driven plant engineering and construction business. He 
became a part of Suzlon in 2017, following significant 
leadership positions at IAC, Senvion and Siemens.
Mr. Rajendra Mehta joined the Suzlon Group in 
December 2022. He brings on-board a rich experience 
of over 30 years. He has expertise in developing and 
executing strategic human resources agenda across 
organisations in the field of engineering, media and 
entertainment, retail and financial services. Over the 
years, his experience has covered different aspects 
of human resources from talent management, 
performance management, leadership and capability 
development, digital transformation and taking up 
organisation transformational agenda.
Mrs. Geetanjali S.Vaidya joined Suzlon in April 2005 
and was appointed as the Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer in December 2019. She brings over 
19 years of experience in the areas of Company law, 
SEBI regulations and related matters. She is a member 
of the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and 
also holds a master’s degree in commerce.
Annual Report 2022-23
12
Address from the 
Chairman and 
Managing Director
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
13
Dear Stakeholders,
It is an honour to write my first letter to you as the Chairman and Managing Director 
of the Suzlon Group. The Suzlon Group, founded with a deep understanding of the 
environment and sustainable development, has been at the forefront of Renewable 
Energy as a key solution provider since its inception. We have consistently 
recognised the growing threats of climate change and have responsibly adapted, 
innovated, and reshaped our business and products to help economies and 
industries address these challenges.
Climate change poses one of the biggest risks that 
humanity faces today. Addressing climate change 
is not only an environmental imperative but also a 
global responsibility. If we fail to take urgent action 
to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, we will face 
increasingly severe consequences, including more 
frequent and intense natural disasters, crop failures, 
and disruptions to global supply chains leading to 
widespread catastrophes of health, food, water, and 
energy. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC) indicates that greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions need to be cut by 43% by 2030. Although 
countries are making ambitious efforts to reduce global 
greenhouse gas emissions, the progress could be 
outpaced and insufficient to limit global temperature 
rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius by the end of the century, 
as suggested by the United Nations Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change.
As recognised unanimously by the world, climate 
change in the No. 1 crisis for humanity and Renewable 
Energy is the most viable weapon to combat it while 
creating a sustainable future where harmony is 
restored between people and the planet. Scalable new 
technologies and nature-based solutions allow us to 
leapfrog into a cleaner, more resilient world. Today, 
renewables have become one of the lowest-cost 
sources of electricity, making them not just a climate 
imperative but also a commercially viable choice. Now, 
all we need is to ramp up our efforts and investments 
rapidly to accelerate this transition to outpace the 
devastation of climate change.
Renewable Energy – Global Outlook 
The Wind Energy sector has recently surpassed a 
significant milestone of 1 terawatt (TW) of installed 
capacity, a result of nearly four decades of relentless 
effort. As per industry projections, it is very likely that 
the next terawatt will be reached in less than ten years, 
which would be a significant ramp-up. The energy 
and climate policies being implemented by major 
economies worldwide, demonstrate a remarkable 
level of ambition and commitment to supporting Wind 
Energy and other Renewable Energy sources. These 
developments signal a promising future for the growth 
and advancement of Renewable Energy and Renewable 
Energy Technologies propelling the industry to redefine 
and forge innovative partnerships with governments, 
cities, communities, investors, and customers.
In CY22, the global Wind Energy sector witnessed 
connectivity of 77.6 GW of new capacity to power grids 
worldwide, representing a year-on-year growth of 9%, 
marking the third-highest year in history in terms of 
new installations. This growth was attained despite 
economic challenges and disruptions in the global 
supply chain, further compounded by global health and 
energy crises. Specifically, the onshore wind market 
contributed 68.8 GW of new capacity worldwide, while 
the offshore wind sector connected an additional 8.8 
GW to the grid last year.
Annual Report 2022-23
14
Source: DNV-GL Energy Transition Outlook 2019 – A global and regional forecast to 2050; IEA 2021
Global Energy Forecast
The simultaneous imperative of secure and affordable 
energy supply while meeting climate targets has 
ensured that the mid-term outlook for Wind Energy 
is exceptionally promising, with a projected double-
digit growth rate of 15%. Global Wind Energy Council 
(GWEC) anticipates that an impressive 680 GW of 
new wind power capacity will be added over the next 
five years. This translates to an average of over 136 
GW of new installations annually until 2027, signalling 
sustained momentum and expansion in the sector.
In addition to the multiple benefits of clean energy 
beyond decarbonising economies which include 
promoting sustainable growth, providing energy 
security, and reducing dependence on depleting 
sources of fossil fuels, this transition is projected to 
create approximately 10.3 million net jobs worldwide 
by 2030.
As per Bloomberg NEF reports, global investments 
in the low-carbon energy transition reached an 
astounding $1.1 Trillion in CY22, setting a new record 
and showcasing significant acceleration compared 
to the previous year thereby enabling the Renewable 
Energy sector, encompassing wind, solar, biofuels, and 
other renewables, to retain its position as the largest 
recipient. Notably, in CY22 the electrified transport 
sector, encompassing expenditures on electric 
vehicles and associated infrastructure, came close to 
renewables in terms of investment with a substantial 
$466   being allocated to electrified transport, 
reflecting an impressive year-on-year growth rate 
of 54%. This surge in investment signals a growing 
focus on decarbonising the transportation sector and 
transitioning to electric mobility which in turn could 
open up one of the largest avenues of growth for clean 
electricity to support global net-zero ambitions.
0
20
40
60
World electricity generation by power station type (1980–2050, PWh/year)
Wind
Solar
1980
1985
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
10%
12%
Hydro
Biomass
Nuclear
Gas
Oil
Coal
0%
-3%
3%
2%
1%
2%
1980–2050
CAGR
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
15
Renewable Energy – India Outlook 
India holds the fourth position in the world for 
Renewable Energy Installed capacity, including Large 
Hydro. It also ranks fourth in both Wind Power capacity 
and Solar Power capacity.
India's announcement of its ambitious goals of installing 
500 GW of non-fossil fuel capacity by 2030, achieving 
net-zero emissions by 2070 and meeting fifty percent 
of its electricity needs from Renewable Energy sources 
by 2030, marks a momentous milestone in the global 
effort against climate change. Within these goals MNRE 
(Ministry of New and Renewable Energy) has set a 
target of 100 GW of Wind Energy installations by 2030. 
There is also a huge potential of about 127 GW from 
offshore installations along the country’s 7,600 kms 
long coastline. In May 2023, India's installed Renewable 
Energy capacity stood at 173.6 GW amounting to 41.4% 
of the overall installed power capacity in the country. 
Within Renewable Energy, the contribution of Wind 
Energy of over 42.8 GW currently stands at 24.6%.
To meet India’s 500 GW Renewable Energy target 
and tackle the annual issue of fossil fuel demand-
supply mismatch, the Ministry of Power has identified 
81 thermal units which will replace coal with 
Renewable Energy generation by 2026. 100% FDI 
allowed in the power sector has boosted FDI inflow 
in this sector taking it to US $16.57 Billion between 
April-December 2022.
The Government has also announced its intent to invite 
bids for 50 GW of Renewable Energy capacity annually 
for the next five years, i.e., from FY23-24 to FY27-28. 
These annual bids of ISTS (Inter-State Transmission) 
connected Renewable Energy capacity will also include 
setting up of Wind Energy capacity of at least 
10 GW per annum. Expanding clean energy has huge 
employment and economic advantage. Reaching its 
goal of 500 GW of non-fossil fuel energy sources by 
2030, India can create 3.4 million new clean energy 
jobs. A large chunk of these jobs will likely be local 
employment opportunities, bringing transformation 
closer to remote communities.
Given the commercial viability of Indian renewables and 
the conducive policy environment, Indian corporates 
and industry at large has started participating in 
green energy adoption and acceleration with great 
enthusiasm. I believe that we are very well positioned 
as a country to showcase to the world how the battle 
against climate change can be won while powering 
growth, thereby firmly establishing India as a central 
force on the global energy transition map.
Technology and Innovation: 
Suzlon Setting the Standard
Suzlon, a pioneer in India's Renewable Energy sector, 
thrives on innovation and continuous R&D, making 
green power accessible to all. Our focus is on reducing 
Levelised Cost of Energy (LCoE), enhancing efficiency, 
and maximising energy output. The Suzlon 3.x MW 
S144 series, is a large wind turbine platform which is 
a remarkable evolution that targets low wind sites, 
delivers higher energy yield, features a 144-metre rotor 
diameter, and has local content up to 85-90%, aligning 
with our vision of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'.
The S144 wind turbine, extendable to 3.15 MW, reaching 
160 meters, showcases our ability to optimise wind 
resources at higher altitudes. These turbines use our 
cutting-edge SB 70.5 carbon fibre blade, excelling in 
low-wind sites, significantly boosting generation yield 
per unit of land. This technology is poised to accelerate 
Wind Energy installations in India, powering the nation's 
sustainable growth.
Going forward our technology focus will stay aligned 
with market requirements of supporting round-the-
clock (RTC) Renewable Energy power plants, wind-
solar hybrid power plants, Renewable Energy power 
plant management systems and integrated Renewable 
Energy solutions for green hydrogen and green fuels.
Rural and Micro Economic Stimulation 
for Nation-Building
Renewable Energy inherently has a transformative ripple 
effect throughout local industries and communities, with 
benefits far beyond its immediate impact. The switch to 
Annual Report 2022-23
16
On-shore growth is expected to slow down with off-shore gaining >10% share at ~19% CAGR during 2020-35
Global Wind Forecast
decentralised electricity generation is a game-changer, 
fostering a dynamic shift of power from urban centres to 
rural areas. This transformation has not only 
invigorated agriculture by improving availability and 
access to electricity but has also stimulated rural and 
micro economies. 
Wind Energy projects have a large geographic spread 
compared to conventional power projects thereby 
creating a positive wave of development and growth 
across several villages that we touch in one sweep. 
Local job creation, stimulating rural businesses and 
commerce, upskilling local human assets, logistics and 
infrastructure development as well as connecting these 
centres through a network of roads to the commercial 
mainstream have been continual and sustained benefits 
over our 28 years of Suzlon operations. Increase in 
digitisation and high-quality communications networks 
in these remote areas have connected hundreds of 
remote Indian villages to the world redefining every 
aspect of their lives.
I derive great satisfaction from the fact that almost 
80% of all jobs at our operating sites are local jobs. 
For every engineering job at our sites, we create one 
supporting job which is staffed by local people in 
addition to several local engineers joining our teams 
as well. Throughout our project footprint we have seen 
a consistent increase in rural education access, value 
job creation, increase in income and elevation in quality 
of life ultimately fostering the essence of self-reliance 
and security.
Clean energy jobs have the possibility of greatly 
improving livelihoods, building climate resilience, 
and supporting India’s national clean energy and 
employment goals, all at the same time. 
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2000
~20
2005
~60
2010
~200
2015
~450
2021
~850
2025E
~1200
2030E
~1900
41%
13%
19%
22%
20%
'00-'21
CAGR
11%
9%
8%
6%
10%
'21-'30E
CAGR
99.5
98.8
98.5
97.2
93.5
91.4
85.9
On-shore (%)
0.5
1.2
1.5
2.8
6.5
8.6
14.1
Off-shore (%)
Installed wind capacity (GW)
CAGR ~20%
CAGR ~9.5%
China
Germany
India
US
Others
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
17
Sources: Climate Action Tracker December 2019; Climate Transparency Report 2020, news articles
The Future is Green  
As India's growth story unfolds, the demand for 
energy and resources is expected to rise. India is the 
third-largest producer and consumer of electricity 
worldwide. Factors such as a growing population, 
expanding electrification efforts, and increasing per-
capita energy consumption are expected to provide 
further momentum to the power sector. These trends 
highlight the immense potential and opportunities for 
investment and development in the industry.
Over the past 20 years, energy consumption has 
doubled, and it is projected to increase by at least 25% 
by 2030. Currently, India imports over 40% of its primary 
energy requirements, amounting to more than USD 
90 Billion annually. Sectors like mobility and industrial 
production heavily rely on imported fossil fuels. 
Therefore, it is crucial to shift towards technologies 
that promote a greater share of renewable sources in 
the energy mix and gradually reduce dependence on 
fossil fuels.
Green hydrogen, produced using Renewable Energy, 
has the potential to play a key role in low-carbon 
and self-reliant economic pathways. It can enable 
the utilisation of domestically abundant Renewable 
Energy resources across regions, seasons, and 
sectors, serving multiple purposes as fuel, or industrial 
feedstock. In sectors such as petroleum refining, 
fertiliser production, and steel manufacturing, hydrogen 
derived from renewable sources can directly replace 
fossil fuel-derived feedstock while hydrogen-fuelled 
long-haul automobiles and marine vessels will drive 
significant decarbonisation in the mobility sector.
Wind-Solar hybrid power plants offer an optimal 
solution to meet the growing demands of stakeholders, 
consumers, and utilities by providing a reliable round-
the-clock Renewable Energy source. Promising 
options include wind-solar-battery power plants or 
wind-solar-gas power plants. Wind-solar hybrid 
projects with optimal configuration have the potential 
to achieve high Plant Load Factors (PLFs), surpassing 
60%, making them highly viable. With efficient energy 
storage solutions, this PLF can even reach up to 
80%. Implementing efficient and integrated hybrid 
Renewable Energy systems can accelerate our 
transition toward a sustainable future. It represents 
one of the most effective approaches to unlock 
the true potential of renewables, aligning with our 
aspirations for green ammonia, green hydrogen, and 
e-mobility requirements.
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Gigatonnes) and 
Warming Projections (Degrees Above Pre-Industrial)
0
50
100
150
-52%
-73%
-84%
2020
2030
2040
2050
-52%
-73%
-84%
Baseline
4.1 – 4.8°C
2°C Consistent
Current policies
2.8 – 3.2°C
Post-Covid 
Current policies
2.7 – 3.1°C
Annual Report 2022-23
18
Harnessing Renewable Energy for a Green Future
Green
Hydrogen
Renewable Energy
Methanol
Fuel
CO2 + H2
Sustainable CO2 capture
Green
Ammonia
N2 + H2
Electrolysis
HEATING
Shipping
AviaƟon
Cars
Rail
Trucks
Buses
TRANSPORT
Steel
Chemical
Reﬁneries
INDUSTRY
POWER
GENERATION
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
19
Road Ahead
As India’s leading Renewable Energy solutions provider, 
Suzlon is committed to partner and catalyse India’s 
energy transition journey. With the rapid ramp-up of 
Renewable Energy installations, deeper penetration of 
renewables in our economy and wider adoption of clean 
energy as a nation, Suzlon, is committed to providing 
world-class, innovative, and integrated Renewable 
Energy solutions to power our nation’s growth. With 
nearly three decades of extensive experience and 
expertise in harnessing the winds across India’s varied 
wind regime, we have created strong fundamentals to 
build India’s energy transition story of the future. 
At Suzlon, we recognise the tremendous opportunity 
and responsibility that this decade has entrusted us 
with, as we look at various emerging opportunities, new 
market segments, and an expanding role for us in the 
world’s energy transition endeavours, in accordance 
with the expectations of our stakeholders. 
As we look forward to leading the Indian Wind Energy 
market, I eagerly anticipate your active participation 
and support in our mission to establish an India 
driven by clean, Sustainable Energy. By doing so, 
we can unlock our nation's immense potential to 
create a brighter future and a stronger nation for 
upcoming generations, while contributing to a better 
world at large.
Best Wishes
Vinod R. Tanti 
Chairman and Managing Director 
Source: The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Global Wind Energy Council, World Economic Forum, Bloomberg NEF, Ministry of New 
and Renewable Energy, Central Electricity Authority of India, India Brand Equity Foundation, Council on Energy, Environment and Water
Annual Report 2022-23
20
       
offshore Wind Energy 
installations in CY22
Year-on-Year growth 
in investment in 
Renewables globally
Year-on-Year growth 
in global Wind 
Energy sector
new Wind Energy 
installations each 
year until 2027
global Wind Energy 
installations during 
CY22
onshore Wind Energy 
installations in CY22
new Wind Energy 
capacity addition in 
next 5 years globally 
global investment in 
low-carbon energy 
transition in CY22
global investment in 
Renewables in CY22
net jobs through 
clean energy 
transition up to 2030
8.8 GW 
54 % 
9% 
136 GW 
77.6 GW 
68.8 GW 
680 GW 
$1.1 Tn 
$466 Bn 
10.3 Mn 
Global Trends
Source: Global Wind Energy Council, World Economy Forum, Bloomberg NEF
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
21
of overall installed 
Renewable Energy 
capacity
jobs through clean 
energy transition
cumulative Renewables 
installations including 
hydro, up to May 2023
cumulative Wind 
Energy installation up 
to May 2023
of Wind Energy 
installations target 
by 2030
FDI inflow between 
April-December 2022 
in Power Sector
energy consumption 
has doubled
Over the past
FDI allowed in 
Power Sector
position in the world 
for Renewable Energy 
installed capacity as 
on May 2023
24.6% 
3.4 Mn 
173.6 GW 
42.8 GW 
100 GW
20 Yrs
$16.57 Bn 
100 % 
4TH
Indian Trends
Source: Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, India Brand Equity Index, Council on Energy Environment and Water
Annual Report 2022-23
22
Address 
from the 
CEO
23
I am happy to share that FY23 marked a significant 
turning point for Suzlon, demonstrating a strong 
performance across the board. The theme of the year 
for Suzlon was consolidation of our strategic initiatives 
to reduce debt and strengthen our balance sheet, 
thereby setting a solid foundation for growth. As I pen 
this letter, Suzlon is now a net zero-debt company 
having successfully closed a series of debt reduction 
initiatives over the last three years to achieve what was 
considered impossible by many.
The Indian Renewable Energy market, is poised for 
substantial growth today, following a period of sluggish 
growth and a stretched-out sectoral transition. 
Maintaining our position as the market leader with a 
33% share on a cumulative basis through this period is 
a testament to our ability to swiftly adapt to evolving 
market dynamics. This adaptability stems from our 
Source: India Energy Outlook, India RE 
Navigator, Govt websites, Lit. search, Bain 
C&I share of RE capacity expected to rapidly grow adding in excess of 50GW by 2030…
0
100
200
300
400
320-350 GW¹
India installed renewable capacity 
(GW)
2022
C&I  (15%)
Non-C&I (85%)
160 GW
2030E
C&I  (20-25%)
Non-C&I (75-80%)
~15%
~10%
(2022-'30E)
Growth Rate
~10%
~20%
C&I share of RE  
consumption (TWh)
As you are aware, FY23 was a year of tremendous tragedy for us with the 
untimely loss of our legendary founder Late Shri Tulsi Tanti. However, despite this 
irreparable loss we bounced back coming together, even stronger than before, to 
build a stable and sustainable foundation for the future. This feat speaks volumes 
of the fundamentally strong business and organisation that Shri Tulsi Tanti had built 
and the commitment of the Tanti Family to Suzlon.
technologically advanced products, robust project 
execution capabilities, and exceptional Operations and 
Maintenance Services (OMS). It is reassuring to know 
that even in extremely challenging market conditions, 
we have not only retained our leadership position 
but are uniquely positioned from a place of strength 
for rapid scale-up and growth in the coming years to 
partner in India’s Energy Transition journey.
Indian wind market is set to witness a CAGR (Compounded 
Annual Growth Rate) of 50% over the next few years 
aided by a number of policy actions favouring new wind 
capacity additions. We expect annual wind capacity 
additions by wind industry to increase to 3.5 GW and 
4.5 GW in FY24 and FY25, respectively. With new bids 
moving to Round-the-Clock, hybrid and peak power we 
Non-C&I (85%)
Non-C&I(75-80%)
C&I (15%)
C&I (20-15%)
India Installed Renewable Capacity 
(GW)
Annual Report 2022-23
24
can look forward to more Wind Energy requirements 
going forward.
Sectoral Policy Environment
In FY23, India's cumulative installation figure stood 
at an impressive 42.63 GW compared to 40.36 GW in 
FY22, indicating annual installations of 2.3 GW in FY23. 
The last financial year witnessed significant policy 
advancements that will profoundly impact the 
Renewable Energy sector's growth trajectory. Notable 
measures include waiving of Inter-State Transmission 
Charges, abolishing reverse auction bidding, 
concessional open access charges, and the creation 
of a separate class for wind RPO (Renewable Purchase 
Obligation). These steps are poised to facilitate the 
sector's expansion. Additionally, the introduction of 
the Green Hydrogen Policy holds immense potential in 
accelerating the renewables industry and supporting 
our nation's energy transition objectives.  With critical 
factors of a favourable policy environment, effective 
resolution of challenges, and processes in place for 
India's Renewable
Energy Goals
faster allocation of land and power evacuation at both 
State and Central levels, we anticipate substantial 
capacity installations in FY24.
Emphasising 'Make-in-India' with domestic 
manufacturing in the Renewable Energy industry can 
enhance Indian manufacturing, accelerate ongoing 
projects and attract new investors and developers. 
Implementing policy reforms, establishing guidelines 
for re-powering, wind-solar hybrid projects, offshore 
wind ventures, and renewable purchase/generation 
obligations are essential measures that will undoubtedly 
strengthen the Renewable Energy sector. The industry 
will also benefit from stabilised tariffs, technological 
advancements, improved cost efficiencies, further 
resolution of land and power evacuation challenges, 
and a significant increase in Foreign Direct Investments 
(FDI) flowing into the Indian Renewable Energy market. 
I foresee that future policy focus will move to key areas 
such as peak power, Round-the-Clock (RTC) power, a 
Panchamrit
500 GW of non-fossil 
fuel energy capacity 
by 2030
1 Bn tonnes 
reduction in carbon 
emissions by 2030
50% renewables 
in the energy mix 
by 2030
45% reduction in 
emissions intensity 
of the economy 
by 2030
Net zero emissions 
by 2070
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
25
new 3.x MW series demonstrating the immense trust 
that our customers have in Suzlon’s expertise and 
product technology.
In the realm of Operations and Maintenance Services 
(OMS), Suzlon remains the custodian of over 16.1 GW of 
customer assets out of which 13.9 GW are in India as on 
March 2023, making us the country's No. 1 Wind Energy 
asset service company, encompassing nearly USD 12 
Billion of customer investment. Our achievements in 
retaining most of our customers in the Operations and 
Maintenance Services (OMS) portfolio are significant. 
Our Multi Brand service offering expanded our world-
class maintenance, repairs, and technical support 
offerings to various non-Suzlon turbine brands as well, 
reinforcing our position as a trusted partner for all wind 
turbine assets in the country. DNV India's recognition 
of 39 ISO certificates across all locations reaffirms 
our unwavering commitment to quality and safety, 
showcasing our 28-year track record in adhering to 
QHSE systems.
Our Human Assets
In recent years, our dedicated workforce, of over 
5,900 wind warriors, have emerged as true heroes 
standing firm in the face of insurmountable financial 
challenges, major upheavals in the industry, changing 
market paradigms, and the unprecedented global 
pandemic. Their resilience in shaping the global 
energy transition with their expertise and dedication is 
critical to our success. Their pivotal role in driving change 
and creating a sustainable future for the world cannot 
be overstated.
At Suzlon, our commitment to fostering a unified, 
diverse, and inclusive work environment remains 
unwavering. We strive to ensure that every individual 
feels genuinely appreciated and valued. Over the 
years, we have actively promoted numerous employee 
engagement programs and initiatives, strengthening 
the bond between management and employees. 
People initiatives like the ‘Connect' townhalls, 
monthly newsletters titled 'WindChimes,' and direct 
management outreaches through 'CEO and CHRO 
Connect' empower our workforce, providing a platform 
for open communication, and gaining deeper insights 
into their needs and aspirations. These initiatives also 
facilitate the implementation of employee development 
programs, equipping our staff with the necessary skills 
comprehensive wind park policy to expedite projects 
and eliminate Power Evacuation (PE) infrastructure 
delays, customised financing for specific projects, and 
consistent bidding momentum without tariff caps.
Key Performance Highlights   
FY23 marked a year of substantial achievements for 
Suzlon. Our balance sheet showed greater resilience, 
with a 90% net debt reduction over three years to 
₹ 1,180 Crore, bolstered by a successful Rights Issue. 
Our consolidated FY23 PAT before exceptional items 
reached a six-year high at ₹ 167 Crore, and we turned 
net worth positive after a decade. Operational success 
was evident, with reported revenues of ₹ 5,947 Crore, 
and EBIDTA of ₹ 832 Crore, showcasing our relentless 
focus on cost control and efficiency enhancement. 
Even as we addressed our capital structure issues and 
recorded a strong performance, we also responded 
to the market requirement of a larger wind turbine 
through the successful launch of our S144 – 3.x MW 
series technology platform. We have cumulative orders 
of 1,815.1 MW by the end of August 2023 which is the 
highest since 2019.  Out of this 1,002.6 MW is for our 
<3 MW
812.5 MW
1,002.6 MW
3 MW (S144) Series
Suzlon Order Book
Annual Report 2022-23
26
and resources to excel professionally. We firmly believe 
that supporting our employees' growth and well-being 
is vital in creating a sustainable and successful future 
for our organisation.
Excellence and Industry Recognition    
In FY23, Suzlon received numerous prestigious awards 
in the manufacturing, service, and industry sectors, 
underscoring our exceptional achievements. We were 
recognised at renowned industry platforms in India, 
including the India Green Manufacturing Challenge 
(IGMC) 2021-22, where our Rotor Blade Unit in 
Bhuj was awarded the Gold Medal and our Nacelle 
Manufacturing Unit in Daman received the Silver Medal. 
Additionally, Suzlon Global Services Limited (SGSL) 
received the 'O&M Team of the Year 2022 Award' 
at the WindInsider Engineering Excellence 
Awards India. These recognitions highlight our 
commitment to excellence and our significant 
contributions in these domains.
We were honoured by DNV India with a commemorative 
memento and appreciation message valuing our 
patronage for more than 25 years, recognising 
our enduring partnership and demonstrating our 
seamless adherence to QHSE systems. With 'Umbrella 
QHSE Systems Certifications,' Suzlon holds 39 ISO 
certificates for all locations. This accomplishment 
not only establishes Suzlon as a prominent player 
in the engineering industry but also highlights our 
exceptional track record in timely completion of audits 
and corrective actions related to non-conformance. 
Suzlon received the CBIP Award 2022 from the Central 
Board of Irrigation and Power for its outstanding 
contribution to the Wind Energy Sector. This 
recognition highlights Suzlon's dedicated service as 
a professional organisation in the Renewable Energy 
Sector. Additionally, we received the esteemed 
'Golden Peacock National Training Award' in the 
Power (Renewable) Sector for 2023, presented by the 
Institute of Directors (IOD) India. Suzlon was selected 
as the winner from a group of 267 applicants this year, 
further acknowledging our commitment to excellence 
in training and development. Furthermore, we were 
recipients of the prestigious CII Pinnacle Awards for 
Excellence in Manufacturing. Our Daman Nacelle 
Manufacturing Plant was recognised for sustainability 
and behavioural achievements, while our Kutch 
Tower Manufacturing Plant received recognition for 
accomplishments in technology, sustainability, and 
behavioural domains. These awards underscore 
Suzlon's commitment to excellence across various 
manufacturing aspects.
These awards and recognitions serve as a testament to 
Suzlon's unwavering commitment to delivering world-
class products and providing exceptional levels of 
service to our customers.
Sustainability and ESG at Suzlon
At Suzlon, sustainability is ingrained in our DNA and 
practices. Our global installations of over 20 GW 
alone help customers avoid ~50 Metric Tonnes of 
CO2 emissions each year. As a leading Renewable 
Energy company, Suzlon understands the impact of 
its operations and practices on the environment and 
society. Therefore, continuous improvement on the 
pillars of ESG is a commitment towards our mission 
of powering a greener tomorrow by balancing natural, 
social, human, physical, and financial resources. 
As a responsible corporate citizen, we are consistently 
working towards enhancing our operations while 
maintaining the highest standards of environmental, 
social, and governance (ESG) compliance. Our 
approach involves measuring the current state of 
our ESG practices, setting short and long-term Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs), and creating strategies 
to achieve those KPIs. We align our operations with 
our ESG strategies, track progress towards our KPIs, 
and audit the consistency of our ESG reports and 
the reliability of the data we use. We firmly believe 
that transparency is crucial in building trust with our 
stakeholders, which is why we disclose our reviewed 
ESG reports and convey ESG stories that inspire. To 
uphold these values, we have embraced globally 
recognised ESG reporting standards and frameworks, 
such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and are 
working towards the compliance of standards sets by 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB).
At Suzlon, we are committed to being a leader in 
sustainable business practices. We are confident 
that our approach will allow us to create long-term 
value for all our stakeholders while safeguarding the 
environment for future generations.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
27
J. P. Chalasani 
Group Chief Executive Officer
Suzlon CSR 
The Suzlon Foundation, the corporate social 
responsibility arm of the Suzlon Group, continued to 
stimulate the social development ecosystem with its 
distinctive impact model, 'SUSTAIN.'
During FY23, Suzlon conducted over 2,573 impactful 
CSR events and reached over 30 lacs villagers and 
10 lacs households in 609 villages. Environment, 
Empowerment, Health, Livelihood, Education, and 
Civic Amenities were the focal points of Suzlon's CSR 
initiatives. These initiatives were implemented after 
speaking with the communities and partnering with 
60 institutions, including government, private, and 
corporate foundations.
Suzlon - The Road Ahead
The government's ambitious target of 500 GW installed 
Renewable Energy capacity by 2030, including 280 GW 
of solar power and 100 GW of wind power, underscores 
our nation's dedication to Green Energy.
With a solid orderbook, encouraging policy environment 
and a game-changing product portfolio we are well-
positioned to meet the increasing volume demands 
of the industry, through our comprehensive business 
solutions, innovative product technology, and 
exceptional service quality. As demand for Renewable 
Energy grows and new customer segments like C&I 
open up, a vast opportunity emerges for long-term, 
sustainable growth. Our efforts to consolidate and 
Source: Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, Central Electricity 
Authority ofIndia, The Company Internal Data Source
30,00,000 
10,00,000 
609
2,573
60
Villagers 
Connected
Households 
Aligned
Villages 
Connected
Impactful 
CSR Events
Institutional 
Partnerships
expand our market share offer tremendous growth 
opportunities with the sector poised for exponential 
growth. Our Operations and Maintenance Services 
(OMS) business continues to excel across all aspects. 
The Group's focus on research and development 
includes onshore product solutions, wind-solar hybrids, 
and control system technologies aimed at improving 
park management and grid stability.
Focussing on wind-solar hybrid projects allows 
us to maximise grid utilisation by leveraging the 
complementary generation profiles of these two 
Renewable Energy sources. This approach not only 
enhances efficiency but also minimises duplication of 
infrastructure costs for power evacuation. Our existing 
development pipeline, technologically advanced 
products, and nationwide strength in Operations 
and Maintenance (O&M) capabilities give Suzlon a 
significant advantage in this domain.
With the successful completion of our debt reduction 
and balance sheet strengthening initiatives, we are 
focussed on organisational capability building by 
improving efficiencies across all operations, ramping 
up manufacturing and project capabilities as required, 
and scaling up our digital backbone for seamless 
decentralised operations. Coupled with our track 
record and proven technology we believe that we have 
set a firm foundation for us to ride the tailwinds of the 
sector for the coming decade.
We are committed to fulfil the vision of Late. Shri Tulsi 
Tanti and shall continue moving forward with the same 
spirit and passion in years to come, making the most 
of every opportunity in our endeavour to create real 
stakeholder value. 
I deeply value the trust bestowed on us by our 
stakeholders and I look forward to your continued and 
unflinching support to collectively create an India that 
our future generations deserve.
Best regards,
Annual Report 2022-23
28
Highest PAT 
reported in
in FY23
in FY23
in FY23
Launch of the new
of Worldwide Wind 
Energy Installations 
in June 2023
order for the new 
3.x MW series by end 
of August 2023
Service Company in 
India by Wind Energy 
asset management
successful Rights 
Issue - 1.8 times over 
subscribed
Wind Energy asset 
under management
cumulative orders 
of Suzlon by end of 
August 2023
1,002.6 MW 
₹1,200 Cr 
₹5,947 Cr 
₹832 Cr 
₹167 Cr 
6 years 
$12 Bn 
No.1 
1,815.1 MW 
20 GW 
3.x MW 
Suzlon Performance
Source: Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, Central Electricity Authority ofIndia, Company Internal Data
Revenue of
EBITDA
PAT before 
exceptional items of
series technology 
platform
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
29
Volumes*
Revenue*
EBITDA (Pre-Fx)*
Net Finance cost*
in MW
₹ Crore
₹ Crore
₹ Crore
59
2,933
1,340
*Consolidated
808
828
6,520
712
204
539
3,295
976
664
839
5,947
401
FY20
FY20
FY20
FY20
FY22
FY22
FY22
FY22
FY21
FY21
FY21
FY21
FY23
FY23
FY23
FY23
Key Performance 
Indicators FY23
-423
Substantial Improvement in Financial Parameters
Annual Report 2022-23
30
*Consolidated
Gross Debt*
₹ Crore
13,137
6,391
6,859
1,905
FY20
FY22
FY21
FY23
HIGHLIGHTS
Uptick in order book 
with rolling out of the highly 
competitive 3 MW WTG series 
providing revenue visibility
Net worth has turned positive 
at ₹1, 099 Crore after a decade
Substantial reduction of debt 
due to refinancing and rights 
issue accomplished during FY23
PAT (before exceptional 
items) turned positive after 6 
years at ₹167 Crore for FY23
Substantial reduction in 
net finance costs by ~44% 
on Y-O-Y basis
PAT* 
(before exceptional items)
₹ Crore
-249
-705
167
FY20
FY22
FY21
FY23
-2,626
Net Debt*
₹ Crore
13,003
5,796
6,373
1,180
FY20
FY22
FY21
FY23
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
31
Net Debt/EBITDA 
(Pre-Fx) Ratio
Substantial Improvement in Financial Parameters
Note: All calculations and data are based on the 
consolidated numbers
˄Calculated as {EBITDA (Pre-Fx) – Tax}/Net Finance Cost
Net Debt/Net Worth ratio at 1.1x
7.0x
11.8x
1.4x
FY21
FY22
FY23
Net Worth
₹ Crore
-3,526
-3,343
1,099
FY20
FY22
FY21
FY23
-10,983
Net Interest 
Coverage Ratio˄
0.9x
0.5x
2.1x
FY21
FY22
FY23
Key Performance 
Indicators FY23
Annual Report 2022-23
32
Wind capacity additions in India
Wind Energy Installations
in GW
Source: Directory Indian Wind Power, 2022 (CECL)
Covid 
impact
E-reverse auction 
discontinued in Jan’23
2.2
1.5
1.1
2.3
FY22
FY21
FY20
FY23
Installations by Suzlon
in GW
(Suzlon Market Share)
0.4
0.1
0.5
0.5
FY22
FY21
FY20
FY23
Suzlon 
installed base
13.9 GW
India wind 
installed base
42.6 GW
(Data as on March 31, 2023)
Suzlon cumulative 
market share
~33%
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
33
Dedicating
20 GW of 
Wind Energy
to the Nation
Suvarda Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
Annual Report 2022-23
34
As a key player in the global Renewable Energy 
landscape, Suzlon becomes the first Indian 
Wind Energy company to reach over 20 GW of 
worldwide Wind Energy installations.
The Suzlon Group reached the milestone 
of over 20 GW worldwide Wind Energy 
installations. This was accomplished 
through the installations of over 12,700 
wind turbines across 17 countries 
spanning six continents solidifying the 
company's position as a significant player 
in the global Wind Energy landscape. 
This milestone builds a robust foundation 
for Suzlon to build upon for exponential 
growth in the coming years. It is a true 
moment of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, where 
an Indian company is setting global 
benchmarks with turbines manufactured 
in India. Suzlon’s journey from the first 
turbine of 270 kW in 1995 to the 3.x MW 
turbine in 2023 will continue to inspire 
future generations. 
35
The Suzlon Group, a leading Renewable Energy solutions 
provider has over 20 GW of Wind Energy capacity installed 
across 17 nations. A vertically integrated organisation, 
with in-house R&D centers in Germany, the Netherlands, 
Denmark and India, and 14 world-class manufacturing 
facilities in India, Suzlon has a 28-year operational history 
and nearly 6,000 diverse professionals. As India's largest 
Wind Energy service provider, it manages a portfolio of  
~14 GW Wind Energy assets. Internationally, the Group 
has an installed capacity of ~6 GW. The 3 MW Series wind 
turbine technology platform is the latest addition to its 
comprehensive product portfolio.
Pioneering 
Renewable Energy 
Solutions
About the Suzlon Group
Suvarda Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
Annual Report 2022-23
36
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
37
(Installation data as 
on June 30, 2023)
Asia
Global Installations
North America 
South America 
15,123 MW
2,779 MW
~806 MW
Australia
Europe
Africa
~764 MW
~510 MW
~139 MW
Presence
Expanding 
Sustainable Horizons
The Suzlon Group is revolutionising and 
redefining the way Sustainable Energy 
sources are harnessed across the world.
Annual Report 2022-23
38
(Installation data as 
on June 30, 2023)
Total MW installed
Total WTGs
Total countries
20,120+ MW
12,700+
17
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
39
SIGNIFICANT MILESTONES
A 28+ Year Legacy 
of Pioneering a 
Sustainable Future
In the 28-year journey  of Suzlon, the Company has turned challenges into 
opportunities, achieving numerous milestones along the way, reflecting the Company's 
evolution as a leading player within the Renewable Energy sector. They also signify 
the Company's contributions to global efforts in combatting climate change and 
promoting sustainable development.
1995
1996
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
Establishment of 
Suzlon
Collaborated with 
Sudwind Energy 
GmbH, Germany
Commissioned its 
first 0.27 MW WTG at 
Dhank, Gujarat
Started the wind farm 
work at Vankusawade, 
Satara, Maharashtra 
Commissioned the 
first wind turbine in 
Tamil Nadu
Commissioned the 
first 1 MW WTG for 
Tata Group Company 
in Maharashtra
Established Suzlon Wind 
Energy Corp, USA
Formation of Suzlon Energy 
Gmbh, Germany
Flagged off Suzlon's first 
export order to USA
Established a 
representative office 
in Beijing, China
Established Suzlon Energy 
Australia Pvt. Ltd. Australia
Established Suzlon Energy A/S, 
Denmark
Crossed 1 GW installations
Established Suzlon Rotor 
Corporation in USA
Opened Initial Public Offer 
(IPO) for 29.34 Million shares
Formed SE Forge Limited
Crossed 2 GW installations
Entered the South 
American market with 
Brazilian energy company
Shri Tulsi R. Tanti 
recognised as TIME's Heroes 
of the Environment
Harvard Business School 
concludes a case study 
labelled 'The Suzlon Edge'
Annual Report 2022-23
40
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
Commissioned the first 
WTG in Spain
Entered Nicaragua, the  
Scandinavian region and 
Sweden
Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti 
recognised as the 
'Champion of the Earth' 
by the United Nations 
Environment Programme 
(UNEP)
Crossed 5 GW 
installations
Crossed 6 GW installations
Suzlon named as 
‘New Sustainability 
Champion’ in a World 
Economic Forum Boston 
Consulting Group study 
Launched the S111-2.1 MW 
WTG
Suzlon received, Asia’s Most 
Promising Brand Award 
Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti received Asia’s 
Most Influential Leader Award
Installed the first S97-2.1 MW 
120m WTG, Hybrid Tower 
(Lattice/Tubular combination) 
in Gujarat
Commissioned 10,000th 
WTG at wind farm in 
Uruguay
Inaugrated Rotor Blade 
Manufacturing unit near 
Ratlam, Madhya Pradesh
Won the 'Golden Peacock Eco 
Innovation Award' for S97 120M 
Hybrid Tower Wind Turbine
Surpassed the milestone 
of 11 GW installations
Suzlon’s first wind farm 
achieved an operational 
milestone of 20 years
Historic year for Suzlon 
as it achieved record 
installations of 1,779 MW
Commissioned S128-2.6 MW 
in Tamil Nadu
Daman Plant won the 
prestigious 'National 
Award for Manufacturing 
Competitiveness'
Certified as ‘Great Place to 
Work’ by the Great Place to 
Work® Institute
Restructuring Completed
SE Forge won 'Exports 
Excellence Award' from 
the Ministry of Commerce, 
Govt. of India
SGSL won 'Business 
Excellence Awards: Energy 
Service Provider of the 
Year (OMS)'
Crossed 19 GW 
installations mark
₹1,200-Crore Rights issue 
oversubscribed by 1.8 times
Became the first Indian Wind 
Energy company to reach over 
20 GW of worldwide Wind 
Energy installations
Late Shri Tulsi Tanti felicitated 
by GWEC for his lifetime 
contribution in 
Renewable Energy with 
'Pioneer Award 2023'
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
41
Consolidated 
Financial Highlights
Particulars
 2018-19 
 2019-20 
 2020-21 
 2021-22 
 2022-23 
Revenue from contracts with customers
4,978
2,933
3,295
6,520
5,947
EBIDTA
(9)
(860)
534
889
832
Interest
1,179
1,290
957
703
383
Depreciation
342
419
258
260
260
Net profit/(loss)
(1,537)
(2,692)
104
(177)
2,887
Equity share capital
1,064
1,064
1,702
1,843
2,454
Total equity
(8,498)
(10,983)
(3,343)
(3,526)
1,099
Gross PPE, CWIP, investment property, 
goodwill, intangible assets, and intangible 
assets under development
3,148
3,115
3,133
3,008
2,521
Net PPE, CWIP, investment property, 
goodwill, intangible assets, and intangible 
assets under development
1,748
1,337
1,142
945
790
Total assets
8,871
6,530
6,601
6,475
5,523
Basic earnings / (loss) per share (₹)
(2.9)
(5.0)
0.1
(0.2)
2.6
Welturi Wind Farm, Maharashtra, India
₹ in Crore
Annual Report 2022-23
42
Operational Highlights
20,120+ MW Suzlon Wind Energy 
Installations are Equivalent to:
Manufacturing Locations 
in India
Trees Absorbing CO2 per Year
Wind Turbines
Countries
Households Powered per Year
(Data as on June 30, 2023)
(Data as on June 30, 2023)
Global Installed Wind 
Energy Capacity
Employees
Tonnes of CO2 emissions 
prevented annually
14
~4.30 Bn
12,700+
17
~13.08 Mn
20,120+ MW
~6,000
~51.66 Mn
Manufacturing Capacity
*3,150 MW is for 2.1 MW WTGs. When Suzlon manufactures 3+ MW WTGs, 
capacity can be ramped up to 4,500 MW in a phased manner
3,150
* MW
Cumulative Market Share 
in India
33%
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
43
Robust Portfolio of 
Wind Turbines Catering to 
Diverse Wind Regimes
Products 
and 
Solutions
Suvarda Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
Annual Report 2022-23
44
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
45
Wind Energy 
Equipment Solutions
Suzlon provides a wide range of robust and reliable 
products, backed by cutting-edge technology and 
comprehensive capabilities throughout the Wind 
Energy value chain. Suzlon’s ‘Make-in-India’ products 
complement the nation's ideology of supporting 
‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’. 
Suvarda Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
Suzlon Technology's mission has always been to reduce the 
Levelized Cost of Energy (LCoE) and increase energy output.
Rotor Diameter 
111m
Rotor Diameter 
120m
Rotor Diameter 
144m
Hub Height 
120m
Hub Height 
140m
Hub Height 
140/160m
+15% AEP
+43%/49% AEP
S111-120(2.1 MW)
S120-140(2.1 MW)
S144-140/160(3.x MW)
Annual Report 2022-23
46
S120 WTG
Product 
Portfolio
Suzlon boasts of a comprehensive product range from 
2.1 MW to 3.x MW comprising of varying rotor diameters and 
tower heights that are suitable for all wind regime.
The S120-2.1 MW available in three variants with towers 
up to 140m hub height helps in unlocking the potential of 
unviable sites. Varied hub-height options help optimise the 
configuration based on the site's wind shear for optimal 
energy output.
The S120 comes with a new rotor diameter which is 
available in various hub heights up to 140 meters.
Tower variants include various construction (Steel Tubular, 
Hybrid Lattice, Hybrid Concrete) options depending upon 
site conditions. 
The S120 - 2.1 MW is a world-class product designed 
specifically for low wind regimes.
The S120 wind turbine showcases a 6-7% higher energy 
yield than the earlier S111 model.
The superior performance of the S120 improves the ROI for 
customers setting a benchmark in the Indian wind industry.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
47
The New 
3 MW Series
Suvarda Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
48
Annual Report 2022-23
Suzlon introduced the 3 MW wind turbine series 
focussing on higher generation, reducing Levelized 
Cost of Energy (LCoE), and contributing to 
Aatmanirbhar Bharat.
New 3 MW series features a 144-meter rotor 
diameter, to unlock energy potential in low wind sites, 
suitable for diverse Indian wind conditions. 
The S144 wind turbine generator is one of the 
largest in India, extendable up to 3.15 MW, depending 
on site wind conditions, available at a hub height of 
140 meters going up to 160 meters by its serial launch. 
At 160 meters hub height, the S144 is also India's 
tallest wind turbine. The S144 fleet generates 
40-43% more energy than the S120 – 2.1 MW model, 
demonstrating Suzlon's altitude optimisation for low-
wind sites.
The 3 MW turbine generators incorporate the 
proven Doubly Fed Induction Generator (DFIG) 
technology and the SB 70.5 carbon fiber blade 
engineered and developed by Suzlon. This advanced 
setup enhances performance in low-wind conditions 
and boosts energy output per unit of land.
With local content of up to 85-90% by its serial 
launch, this series proves Suzlon’s commitment to 
innovation and self-reliance. Suzlon's 3 MW wind 
turbine series showcases dedication to sustainable 
solutions. The 3 MW – S144 technology aligns with 
India's Renewable Energy goals.
A true game-changer 
product for the 
Indian Wind Sector
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
49
Industries 
Served
Suzlon has partnered with over 1,900 customers 
across IPPs, large corporates and PSUs including 
ONGC, GAIL, IPCL, etc. The Company has enabled 
Wind Energy adoption through partnerships with 
industry bodies and municipal corporations, 
fostering integration across various sectors.
Nakhatrana Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
Annual Report 2022-23
50
Clientele
Some of our marquee clients
...and many more.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
51
Overview of 
Asset Management 
Capabilities in India
Assets under management
$ 10 Bn
Suzlon Installed Base in India
14.2 GW+
Wind Energy 
Service Solutions
Suzlon's range of best-in-class services ensures 
consistent performance for the wind turbine 
throughout the entire project lifecycle.
Impact of 14.2 GW of Clean Energy
Trees absorbing 
CO2 per year
~3.02 Bn
Households powered per year
~9.20 Mn
CO2 emissions prevented per year
~36.32 MT
Nakhatrana Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
(Data as on June 30, 2023)
Annual Report 2022-23
52
Wind Turbines
9,500+
Happy Customers
(Data as on June 30, 2023)
(Data as on June 30, 2023)
1,900+
Service Professionals
All-India installed 
Wind Energy capacity
3,400+
~33%
Presence in all 
Windy States of India
2.3 GW
Rajasthan
3.7 GW
Gujarat
2.1 GW
Maharashtra
1.2 GW
Karnataka
0.03 GW
Kerala
0.5 GW
Madhya Pradesh
0.3 GW
Telangana
1.5 GW
Andhra Pradesh
2.6 GW
Tamil Nadu
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
53
Value-Added 
Services & Products
Suzlon enhances efficiency, yield and 
Return on Investment (ROI) for its clients 
through technology-driven, value-added 
services and innovative products.
Climbing System
Quick Sense
SC Trinity
Quick Climb is an assisted climbing tool for 
engineers to enable hurdle-free climbing of 
turbine towers. It ensures a safer and faster way 
for technicians to reach the nacelle of the wind 
turbine and facilitates the carrying of tools, thus 
significantly reducing human effort and risk.
Quick Sense is a sensor which identifies the wind 
direction. The new wind vane, once deployed, 
ensures enhanced resolution and accuracy of the 
wind direction. This leads to better alignment of 
the nacelle to the wind direction, increasing the 
Annual Energy Production (AEP).
Suzlon's advanced, in-house developed and 
user-friendly SCADA (Supervisory Control 
and Data Acquisition) application, SC Trinity 
enhances asset performance. This best-in-class 
fleet performance analysis tool is the 
next-generation SCADA platform that enables a 
user to view the real-time performance of 
Wind Turbine Generators (WTGs).
Annual Report 2022-23
54
Suvarda Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
55
Multi Brand O&M Services
Numerous wind farm owners have deployed turbines 
from different OEMs, requiring life-long maintenance. 
Annual charges for multi-make turbines are diverse 
and coordinating with multiple providers is complex. 
Opting for a single provider ensures cost-efficiency 
and performance.
Suzlon Services, is a leader in Indian Wind Energy 
service sector with 28 years of expertise. With 
2.5 million hours of experience, a diversified portfolio 
ranging from 225 kW to 2.6 MW, dedicated 3,400+ 
service professionals, and a strong network, Suzlon 
caters uniquely to multi-make turbine O&M. Under 
Multi Brand service, Suzlon offers maintenance, 
repairs,and technical support for diverse wind turbine 
fleets, serving as a comprehensive solution for 
multi-make turbines by various OEMs.
Providing multi-make services for wind assets 
ensures business continuity, secures revenues, 
enhances the ROI of the machines, and safeguards 
customer assets. This encourages investors to 
participate in the country's Wind Energy sector 
actively, and contributing to more Green Energy 
generation for nations worldwide.
Suzlon O&M team provides comprehensive and semi 
or non-comprehensive service to customers with 
turbines of various brands.
Suvarda Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
Annual Report 2022-23
56
Comprehensive 
Service
Semi or 
Non-Comprehensive 
Service
Under the Comprehensive Service, Suzlon offers end-to-end OMS (Operations and 
Maintenance Services) that includes scheduling and maintenance of the multi-make WTGs.
The semi-comprehensive and non-comprehensive services include the breakdown 
maintenance of turbines as per requirement. The team also provides SCADA support 
for multiple OEM turbines, technical support as per requirement, technical workforce 
support as well as support for technical due diligence. In addition, to enhance the 
fleet's performance and optimise efficiency, the blade composite services support 
the repair/refurbishment of the blades.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
57
Suvarda Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
Annual Report 2022-23
58
Leading Energy 
Transition with 
Excellence and 
Commitment
Suzlon's 
Competitive 
Edge
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
59
Research and 
Development
Suzlon devotes substantial effort to R&D, fostering innovation and integrating outcomes into 
product development, processes, operations, and maintenance. The net result has been a 
significant reduction in the Levelized Cost of Energy (LCoE) and higher energy output. Suzlon 
has key research centers in Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, and India. It has the best global 
minds in the field to assimilate, formulate and implement its R&D strategy. Suzlon is constantly 
pushing the boundaries to make Renewable Energy commercially lucrative and environmentally 
beneficial form of mainstream energy.
Annual Report 2022-23
60
Centre: Hengelo
Focus Area: 
Blade Design and 
Integration
The Netherlands
Centre: Pune
Focus Area: 
Design & Product 
Engineering
Turbine Testing & 
Measurement
Wind Resource 
Development
Technical Field Support
Engineering
Centre: Vadodara
Focus Area: 
Blade Testing Centre
Centre: Chennai
Focus Area: 
Design & Product 
Engineering 
(Mechanical Drive)
Centre: Bengaluru
Focus Area: 
Technology Centre
India
Centre: Aarhus
Focus Area: 
SCADA
Denmark
Only Indian Company with a truly global R&D establishment.
Centre: Hamburg
Focus Area: 
Development & 
Integration
Certification
Centre: Rostock
Focus Area: 
Development & 
Integration
Design & Product 
Engineering
Innovation & Strategic 
Research
Germany
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
61
Suzlon stands out as one of the world's most vertically integrated wind turbine 
manufacturers, possessing extensive manufacturing capabilities for all key components 
of a wind turbine generator. Unlike many players in the market, Suzlon takes pride in its 
ability to produce most components in-house, ensuring unmatched consistency and 
reliability throughout the turbine's value chain. With production facilities strategically 
located in India, Suzlon is well-equipped to serve global markets. 
Suzlon has in-house manufacturing capabilities for all major parts of a wind turbine, 
including blades, nacelles, control panels, hubs, and tubular towers.
Supply Chain 
Management and 
Manufacturing
WTG Manufacturing Unit, Daman (UT), India 
Annual Report 2022-23
62
Total annual manufacturing 
capacity
3,150* MW
Manufacturing 
locations across India
14
* SEL has a ramp-up/ramp-down capacity of 3,150 MW for 2.1 MW 
WTGs. When Suzlon manufactures 3+ MW WTGs, capacity can be 
ramped up to 4,500 MW in a phased manner. 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
63
State-of-the-Art Manufacturing Facilities Across India
Total annual Manufacturing Capacity: 3,150* MW
Year: 2003
Products: Nacelle and Hub
Puducherry (UT)
1,260 MW/Yr
Year: 2005
Product: Rotor Blades
Dhule, Maharashtra
840 MW/Yr
Year: 2016
Product: Rotor Blades
Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh
840 MW/Yr
Year: 2003
Product: Rotor Blades,
Puducherry (UT)
840 MW/Yr
Year: 2005
Product: Tubular Towers
Gandhidham, Gujarat
1,260 MW/Yr
Year: 2016
Product: Rotor Blades
Jaisalmer, Rajasthan
420 MW/Yr
Year: 2021
Product: Control systems
Daman (UT)
1,890 MW/Yr
Year: 2006
Product: Rotor Blades
Bhuj, Gujarat
840 MW/Yr
Year: 2016
Product: Rotor Blades
Ratlam, Madhya Pradesh
420 MW/Yr
SEForge
Year: 2006
Product: Casting
Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu
1,20,000 
MT/Yr
Year: 2006
Product: Forging
Vadodara, Gujarat
42,000 
Rings/Yr
Year: 2005
Products: Nacelle and Hub
Daman (UT)
Year: 2005
Product: Nacelle Cover
Daman (UT)
1,890 MW/Yr
1,890 MW/Yr
Year: 2006
Product: Transformers
Vadodara, Gujarat
3,150 MW/Yr
* SEL has a ramp-up/ramp-down capacity of 3,150 MW for 2.1 MW WTGs. When Suzlon 
manufactures 3+ MW WTGs, capacity can be ramped up to 4,500 MW in a phased manner.
Annual Report 2022-23
64
Blade Manufacturing Unit, Jaisalmer, India
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
65
Suzlon is deeply committed to upholding the highest quality standards and 
meeting compliance to ensure stakeholder and customer satisfaction. To 
achieve this, the Company has devised a comprehensive Quality Management 
Strategy (QMS), incorporating initiatives like House of Quality and Quality 
Function Deployment (QFD). This approach seeks to embed a culture 
of excellence and performance throughout the organisation, providing 
customers with top-quality products and services while continuously 
improving safety measures. 
The Company's streamlined processes strengthen its execution capability 
and capacity, delivering reliable, user-friendly products and reducing life-
cycle costs. Amidst all this, it remains dedicated to its promise of driving a 
greener tomorrow by minimising carbon emissions and promoting Renewable 
Energy. Certified Environmental Management Systems, Occupational Health 
and Safety Management Systems and Quality Management Systems reinforce 
Suzlon's commitment to maintaining world-class quality benchmarks at all 
levels of the Company.
Quality Management
Blade Manufacturing Unit, Jaisalmer, India
Control Panel Unit, Daman (UT), India
WTG Manufacturing Unit, Daman (UT), India
Annual Report 2022-23
66
Suzlon's HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) 
is a global initiative that establishes a company-
wide practice of setting and maintaining the 
highest HSE standards, supported by a dedicated 
team and organisational commitment. Its HSE 
initiatives are designed to ensure the safety of 
its employees while providing assurance to its 
customers, suppliers and contractors with a clear 
focus on achieving HSE excellence.
Suzlon works tirelessly with its employees to 
comply with all applicable laws and industry 
standards. The Company believes the 
alignment of its people, decisions and process 
improvements will enable the organisation to 
overcome obstacles and address dependencies 
to reach the desired state.
Suzlon's HSE initiatives help customers own 
projects that embrace environment, health and 
safety and comply with all required regulations.
Health, 
Safety and 
Environment 
Nakhatrana Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
67
Recognition and Beyond
Awards
 ‘O&M Team of the 
Year’
Suzlon Rotor Blade 
Unit at Bhuj won the 
Gold Medal in India 
Green Manufacturing 
Challenge 2021-22
Suzlon Nacelle 
Manufacturing Unit 
at Daman, won the 
Silver Medal in India 
Green Manufacturing 
Challenge 2021-22
Suzlon QHSE 
received the 'Value 
your patronage for 
more than 25 years,' 
memento for QHSE 
systems certificates
WindInsider, 
Engineering 
Excellence Awards, 
India
International 
Research Institute 
for Manufacturing 
(IRIM)
International 
Research Institute 
for Manufacturing 
(IRIM)
DNV India
Award 
Category
Service
Manufacturing
Manufacturing
Quality
Date
April 26, 2022
September 2, 2022
September 2, 2022
January 10, 2023
A Showcase of Awards and Accolades (2022-23)
Annual Report 2022-23
68
‘The Best 
Contribution in 
Wind Energy', for 
2022
‘Golden Peacock 
National Training 
Award’ in the Power 
(Renewable) Sector 
for 2023
Suzlon Nacelle 
Manufacturing 
Plant at Daman 
received ‘Pinnacle 
Awards, for 
Excellence in 
Manufacturing’ in 
the Sustainability 
and Behavioural 
domain
Suzlon Tower 
Manufacturing 
Plant at Kutch 
received ‘Pinnacle 
Awards, for 
Excellence in 
Manufacturing’ in 
the Technology, 
Sustainability and 
Behavioural domain
Shri Tulsi R. Tanti 
received the 
‘Pioneer Award 
2023’ for lifetime 
contribution in 
Renewable Energy
Central Board 
of Irrigation and 
Power (CBIP), 
New Delhi
Institute of 
Directors (IOD)
Confederation of 
Indian Industries 
(CII)
Confederation of 
Indian Industries 
(CII)
Global Wind Energy 
Council (GWEC)
Industry
Industry
Manufacturing
Manufacturing
Late Shri Tulsi R. Tanti
March 3, 2023
March 15, 2023
March 21, 2023
March 21, 2023
June 15, 2023
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
69
Statutory 
Reports
Suvarda Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
Annual Report 2022-23
72
Dear Shareholders,
The Board of Directors present the Twenty Eighth Annual Report of your Company together with the audited standalone 
and consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023.
1.	
Financial result
	
The audited standalone and consolidated Ind AS financial results for the financial year ended March 31, 2023 
are as under:
₹ in Crore
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
FY 23
FY 22
FY 23
FY 22
Revenue from contracts with customers
3,538.14
3,975.41
5,946.84
6,519.95
Other operating income
52.30
64.63
23.69
61.83
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (EBITDA)
60.06
69.40
831.92
889.45
Less: Depreciation and amortisation expense 
(including impairment losses)
190.04
185.13
259.68
259.84
Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)
(129.98)
(115.73)
572.24
629.61
Add: Other income
192.22
63.02
19.63
22.19
Less: Finance cost
441.56
777.08
420.76
734.52
Profit/ (loss) before tax before exceptional items
(379.32)
(829.79)
171.11
(82.72)
Less: Exceptional loss/ (gain) items
(2,542.08)
82.87
(2,720.60)
(83.12)
Profit/ (loss) before tax
2,162.76
(912.66)
2,891.71
0.40
Less: Tax expense
-
-
4.42
166.59
Profit/ (loss) after tax
2,162.76
(912.66)
2,887.29
(166.19)
Share of profit / (loss) of associates and jointly 
controlled entities
N.A.
N.A.
-
(10.36)
Net profit/ (loss) for the year
2,162.76
(912.66)
2,887.29
(176.55)
Other comprehensive income/ (loss), net of tax
(5.71)
1.67
(34.88)
(81.83)
Total comprehensive income/ (loss), net of tax
2,157.05
(910.99)
2,852.41
(258.38)
2.	
Company’s performance
2.1	 On a standalone basis, the Company achieved revenue of ₹ 3,538.14 Crore and EBIT of ₹ (129.98) Crore as against 
₹ 3,975.41 Crore and ₹ (115.73) Crore respectively in the previous year. Net profit for the year under review is ₹ 
2,162.76 Crore as compared to loss of ₹ 912.66 Crore in the previous year.
2.2	 On consolidated basis, the Group achieved revenue of ₹ 5,946.84 Crore and EBIT of ₹ 572.24 Crore as against ₹ 
6,519.95 Crore and ₹ 629.61 Crore respectively in the previous year. Net profit for the year under review is ₹ 2,887.29 
Crore as compared to net loss of ₹ 176.55 Crore in the previous year.
3.	
Appropriations
3.1	 Dividend
	
In view of accumulated losses, the Board of Directors expresses its inability to recommend any dividend on equity 
shares for the year under review. In terms of Regulation 43A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the “Listing Regulations”), the Company has adopted 
a dividend distribution policy which is available on the Company’s weblink at https://www.suzlon.com/pdf/about/cg/
Policy_Dividend_Distribution.pdf.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
73
3.2	 Transfer to reserves
	
During the year under review, the Company was not 
required to transfer any amount to any reserves.
4.	
Material developments during the financial 
year under review and occurred between 
the end of the financial year and the date 
of this Report
	
During the year under review and up to the date of 
this Report, the following material events took place:
4.1	 Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti, the Founder, the Chairman & 
Managing Director and one of the Promoters of 
Suzlon Energy Limited passed away on October 01, 
2022 on account of cardiac arrest.
4.2	 Implementation of Refinancing Proposal:
	
The 
Company 
and 
its 
subsidiaries 
Suzlon 
Global Services Limited (“SGSL”), Suzlon Power 
Infrastructure Limited (“SPIL”) (since merged with 
SGSL), Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited (“SGWPL”) 
and a joint venture Suzlon Generators Limited 
(“SGL”) (since ceased to be a subsidiary due to 
divestment) (hereinafter collectively referred to as 
“Suzlon The Group” or the “STG”) had submitted 
a proposal to the then lenders (the “Erstwhile 
Lenders”) for refinancing of the outstanding 
restructured facilities. The STG entered into 
an agreement with the Erstwhile Lenders for 
refinancing the outstanding restructured facilities 
(the “Refinancing Proposal”) based on the sanction 
letters from REC Limited and Indian Renewable 
Energy Development Agency Limited (the “New 
Lenders”). On May 24, 2022 (the “Effective Date”), 
the Refinancing Proposal was consummated, and 
the outstanding obligations of the STG under the 
Restructured Facilities were discharged as follows:
i.	
Outstanding Rupee Term Loan along with 
accrued interest has been paid off in full;
ii.	
Limits of non-fund based working capital 
facilities against cash margin or Letter of 
Comfort (“LOC”) were released or transferred 
or replaced;
iii.	
Entire outstanding value of 410,000 number 
of Optionally Convertible Debentures (“OCD”) 
having face value of ₹ 100,000 each issued by 
the Company have been converted in full in to 
571,428,572 equity shares having face value 
of ₹ 2 each of the Company allotted to the 
Erstwhile Lenders; 
iv.	
445,301 number of Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference Shares (“CCPS”) having face value 
of ₹ 100,000 each issued by SGSL have been 
converted in full in to 4,454 equity shares 
having face value of ₹ 10 each of SGSL getting 
allotted to the Erstwhile Lenders;
v.	
The requirement of maintaining the lock-in 
for 997,176,872 equity shares having face 
value of ₹ 2 each of the Company issued to 
the Erstwhile Lenders as stipulated in the 
Framework Restructuring Agreement dated 
June 30, 2020 was waived; and
vi.	
498,588,439 number of convertible warrants 
issued by the Company to the Erstwhile 
Lenders were surrendered.
	
	
On April 28, 2022, the Company along 
with SGSL, SGWPL and SPIL, its identified 
subsidiaries, and the New Lenders entered 
into a Rupee Term Loan Agreement (the 
“RTL Agreement”) with the New Lenders 
for refinancing the facilities of the STG. On 
the Effective Date, on consummation of 
refinancing proposal, the STG refinanced its 
borrowing facilities from Erstwhile Lenders as 
per the RTL Agreement with the facilities from 
the New Lenders. The key features of the RTL 
Agreement have been given in the Notes to 
the Financial Statements forming part of this 
Annual Report.
4.3	 Mergers 
/ 
demergers 
/ 
amalgamation 
/ 
restructuring / disposal of subsidiaries:
	
During the year under review and up to the date of 
this Report, the following developments took place 
in the matters of mergers / demergers / divestment:
a.	
In the matter of the merger by absorption 
of SPIL, a wholly owned subsidiary of the 
Company, with SGSL, also a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the Company, the final order 
approving the Scheme of the Amalgamation 
of SPIL with SGSL was passed by NCLT, 
Ahmedabad Bench on September 26, 2022 
and NCLT Chennai Bench on June 10, 2022 
respectively. Post-merger becoming effective 
on September 29, 2022, being the date on 
which final order issued by NCLT were filed by 
SPIL and SGSL with the concerned Registrar 
of Companies, the business undertaking of 
SPIL has been merged into SGSL from the 
appointed date, i.e. April 1, 2020;
b.	
In the matter of the demerger by transfer 
and vesting of Project Execution Business 
and Power Evacuation Business of SGWPL, 
a step down wholly owned subsidiary of the 
Company, into SGSL, the final order approving 
the Scheme of Arrangement between SGWPL 
and SGSL was passed by NCLT, Ahmedabad 
Bench on September 28, 2022 for sanctioning 
the 
scheme. 
Post 
demerger 
becoming 
effective on September 29, 2022, being the 
date on which the order issued by NCLT was 
filed by SGWPL and SGSL with the concerned 
Registrar of Companies, the Project Execution 
Business and Power Evacuation Business of 
SGWPL has been transferred to SGSL from 
the appointed date, i.e. April 2, 2020 and 
Annual Report 2022-23
74
SGWPL will continue undertaking its Land 
Development Business and Power Generation 
Business;
c.	
SGL, a subsidiary of the Company, ceased to 
be the subsidiary of the Company pursuant to 
completion of divestment of the Company’s 
75% stake in SGL to Voith Turbo Private Limited 
on April 7, 2022; and
d.	
Vayudoot Solarfarms Limited, a subsidiary of 
the Company, ceased to be the subsidiary of 
the Company pursuant to transfer of its entire 
51.05% shareholding to Aries Renewables 
Private Limited on December 3, 2022.
4.4	 Rights Issue
	
On October 31, 2022, the Company allotted 
2,400,000,000 partly paid-up equity shares having 
a face value of ₹ 2.00 each with ₹ 1.00 paid-up 
aggregating to ₹ 600 Crore at an issue price of 
₹ 5.00 per equity share, i.e. at a premium of ₹ 3.00 
per equity share, on a rights basis to the existing 
equity shareholders of the Company in the ratio 
of five equity shares for every twenty-one fully 
paid-up equity shares held by the existing equity 
shareholders on the record date of October 4, 
2022. The applicants were required to pay ₹ 2.50 
per equity share on application (of which ₹ 1.00 per 
equity share being adjusted towards face value 
and ₹ 1.50 per equity share being adjusted towards 
securities premium) and the balance ₹ 2.50 was 
payable on one or more subsequent calls.
	
Subsequently, the Securities Issue Committee of 
the Board of Directors of the Company, on February 
24, 2023, approved making of the First and Final 
Call of ₹ 2.50 per partly paid-up equity share (of 
which ₹ 1.00 per equity share being adjusted 
towards face value and ₹ 1.50 per equity share 
being adjusted towards securities premium) on 
outstanding 2,400,000,000 partly paid-up equity 
shares. March 2, 2023 was fixed as the record date 
for the purpose of determining the holders of partly 
paid-up equity shares to whom the call notice was 
sent for payment of the First and Final Call. Pursuant 
to the same and up to the date of this Report, 
on receipt of requisite call money, the Securities 
Issue Committee has approved conversion of 
2,351,863,294 partly paid-up equity shares bearing 
ISIN IN9040H01011 into fully paid-up equity shares 
bearing ISIN INE040H01021 aggregating to ₹ 587.97 
Crore. As on date of this Report, the call money 
remains unpaid on 48,136,706 partly paid-up equity 
shares aggregating to ₹ 12.03 Crore.
4.5 Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP):
	
In accordance with the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021, the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee of the Board of 
Directors of the Company has on May 22, 2023, 
granted 109,290,000 Options convertible into 
109,290,000 equity shares of ₹ 2.00 each to 
the eligible employees of the Company and its 
Subsidiaries under the Employee Stock Option 
Plan 2022 at an exercise price of ₹ 5.00 per option 
with 50% vesting (out of which 25% would be 
retention-based vesting and balance 25% would 
be performance-based vesting) at the end of first 
year from the date of grant and balance 50% (out of 
which 25% would be retention-based vesting and 
balance 25% would be performance-based vesting) 
at the end of second year from the date of grant 
and exercise period of two years from the date of 
respective vesting.
5.	
Capital and debt structure
5.1	 Authorised share capital
	
During the year under review, there is no change 
in the authorised share capital of the Company. 
The authorised share capital of the Company as on 
March 31, 2023 and as on the date of this Report is 
₹ 11,000.00 Crore divided into 5,500 Crore equity 
shares of ₹ 2 each.
5.2	 Paid-up share capital
	
a.	
During the year under review, the Company has allotted equity shares as per details given below:
Date of allotment
Details of securities 
allotted
Remarks
May 24, 2022
571,428,572 equity 
shares of ₹ 2 each
Conversion of entire outstanding value of 410,000 
Optionally Convertible Debentures of ₹ 100,000 each 
issued on preferential basis to the lenders in terms of the 
Refinancing Proposal aggregating to ₹ 4,099.18 Crore
September 23, 2022
284,214,474 equity 
shares of ₹ 2 each
Conversion of 27,977 Bonds of USD 320 (worth USD 
9,455,285 after capitalising interest) @ ₹ 2.49 per equity 
share
October 31, 2022
2,400,000,000 partly 
paid-up equity shares of 
₹ 2 each
Rights Issue of partly paid equity shares @ ₹ 5 per share 
with ₹ 2.50 paid on application (with ₹ 1 towards face 
value and ₹ 1.50 towards securities premium)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
75
	
b.	
Subsequently, the Securities Issue Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company has, on February 24, 2023, 
approved making of the First and Final Call of ₹ 2.50 (with ₹ 1 towards face value and ₹ 1.50 towards securities 
premium) per partly paid-up equity share and the Company having received call money, the Securities Issue 
Committee has approved conversion of partly paid-up equity shares bearing ISIN IN9040H01011 into fully 
paid-up equity shares bearing ISIN INE040H01021 as under:
Date of conversion
Remarks
March 29, 2023
conversion of 1,997,821,943 partly paid-up equity shares into fully paid-up equity shares 
aggregating to ₹ 499.46 Crore; 
May 8, 2023
conversion of 110,420,880 partly paid-up equity shares into fully paid-up equity shares 
aggregating to ₹ 27.60 Crore;
May 25, 2023
conversion of 218,441,785 partly paid-up equity shares into fully paid-up equity shares 
aggregating to ₹ 54.61 Crore;
June 12, 2023
conversion of 9,265,406 partly paid-up equity shares into fully paid-up equity shares 
aggregating to ₹ 2.32 Crore;
July 7, 2023
conversion of 15,913,280 partly paid-up equity shares into fully paid-up equity shares 
aggregating to ₹ 3.98 Crore;
	
	
Accordingly, the paid-up share capital of the Company as on March 31, 2023 is ₹ 2,454.40 Crore divided into 
12,473,087,083 equity shares comprising of 12,070,909,026 fully paid-up equity shares having a face value of 
₹ 2/- each bearing ISIN INE040H01021 and 402,178,057 partly paid-up equity shares having a face value of 
₹ 2/- each with ₹ 1/- paid-up bearing ISIN IN9040H01011. And the paid-up share capital of the Company 
as on the date of this Report is ₹ 2,489.80 Crore divided into 12,473,087,083 equity shares comprising of 
12,424,950,377 fully paid-up equity shares having a face value of ₹ 2/- each bearing ISIN INE040H01021 and 
48,136,706 partly paid-up equity shares having a face value of ₹ 2/- each with ₹ 1/- each paid-up bearing 
ISIN IN9040H01011.
5.3	 Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (“FCCBs”)
	
The details of outstanding FCCBs as on March 31, 2023 and as on date of this Report are as under:
Series
Outstanding amount (USD)
Exchange 
rate (₹)
Convertible 
on or before
Conversion 
price (₹)
As on 
March 31, 2023
As on the date 
of this Report
USD denominated convertible bonds 
due 2032
529,338.11
Nil
74.8464
August 17, 
2032
2.61 / 2.49
	
During the year under review, in relation to the 
outstanding USD denominated convertible bonds 
due 2032 (the “Bonds” or “FCCBs”), a limited 
opportunity was provided by the Company to the 
Bondholders during the period from September 6, 
2022 to September 22, 2022 through an invitation 
memorandum dated September 6, 2022 and 
subsequent extension dated September 15, 2022 
to convert their outstanding Bonds into the equity 
shares of ₹ 2/- each of the Company (the “Shares”) at 
a conversion price of ₹ 2.49 per Share, being a price 
not less than the regulatory floor price determined 
in accordance with the applicable laws. In response 
to such invitation, the Company had received 
conversion notices from the Bondholders electing 
to convert 27,977 Bonds aggregating to a principal 
amount of USD 9,455,285 (after capitalising interest 
@ 2.75% per annum accrued on half yearly basis) 
into the equity shares. Accordingly, 284,214,474 
equity shares of ₹ 2 each were allotted to the 
Bondholders at a conversion price of ₹ 2.49 per 
Share with a fixed rate of exchange on conversion 
of ₹ 74.8464 to USD 1.00.
	
Post March 31, 2023, the Company has redeemed 
the entire outstanding FCCBs at their principal 
amount aggregating to USD 529,338.11 together 
with accrued but unpaid interest thereon up to the 
redemption date @ 1.25% p.a. amounting to USD 
1,378.48 in accordance with terms of the FCCBs. 
Accordingly, the FCCBs have been cancelled and 
delisted from the Singapore Exchange Securities 
Trading Limited. Following the redemption, there 
are no outstanding FCCBs in issue.
5.4	 Warrants
	
Under the Debt Resolution Plan, the Company had, 
on June 27, 2020, allotted on preferential basis, 
498,588,439 fully paid up Warrants having a face 
value of ₹ 2/- each, each convertible in to 1 equity 
share of ₹ 2/- each. During the year under review, 
these warrants were cancelled w.e.f. May 24, 2022.
Annual Report 2022-23
76
6. 
Annual return in terms of Section 92(3) of 
the Companies Act, 2013
	
The annual return in Form No.MGT-7 for FY 22 is 
available on the Company’s weblink at https://www.
suzlon.com/NewPdf/Other_Disclosures/2022-23/
Form-MGT7-310322.pdf. The due date for filing 
annual return for FY 23 is within a period of sixty 
days from the date of annual general meeting. 
Accordingly, the Company shall file the same with 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs within prescribed 
time and a copy of the same shall be made available 
on the website of the Company as is required in 
terms of Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013.
7.	
Number of board meetings held
	
The details pertaining to number and dates of board 
meetings held during the year under review have 
been provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
forming part of this Annual Report.
8.	
Director’s responsibility statement
	
Pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 
2013, the Board of Directors confirm to the best of 
their knowledge and belief that:
a.	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards had been 
followed along with proper explanation relating 
to material departures;
b.	
the Directors had selected such accounting 
policies and applied them consistently and 
made judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent so as to give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company at the end of the financial year and 
of the profit of the Company for that period;
c.	
the Directors had taken proper and sufficient 
care 
for 
the 
maintenance 
of 
adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
d.	
the Directors had prepared the annual 
accounts on a going concern basis;
e.	
the Directors had laid down internal financial 
controls to be followed by the Company 
and that such internal financial controls are 
adequate and were operating effectively; and
f.	
the Directors had devised proper systems to 
ensure compliance with the provisions of all 
applicable laws and that such systems were 
adequate and operating effectively.
9.	
A statement on declaration given by the 
Independent Directors
	
In terms of Section 149(7) of the Companies Act, 
2013, Mr. Marc Desaedeleer, Mr. Per Hornung 
Pedersen, Mr. Sameer Shah, Mrs. Seemantinee 
Khot and Mr. Gautam Doshi, the Independent 
Directors of the Company, have given a declaration 
to the Company that they meet the criteria of 
independence as specified under Section 149(6) 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing 
Regulations and there has been no change in the 
circumstances which may affect their status as 
Independent Directors. Further, they have also 
given a declaration that they have complied with the 
provisions of the Code of Ethics for Directors and 
Senior Management (including Code of Conduct for 
Independent Directors prescribed in Schedule IV to 
the Companies Act, 2013) to the extent applicable, 
during the year under review.
	
Further, in the opinion of the Board of Directors of 
the Company, all the Independent Directors are 
persons having high standards of integrity and 
they possess requisite knowledge, qualifications, 
experience (including proficiency) and expertise in 
their respective fields.
10.	 Company’s 
policy 
on 
director’s 
appointment and remuneration
	
In accordance with Section 178 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations, the ‘Board 
Diversity and Remuneration Policy’ as adopted by 
the Board of Directors of the Company is available 
on the Company’s weblink at https://www.suzlon.
com/pdf/about/cg/Policy_Board-Diversity-&-
Remuneration.pdf. The details of remuneration 
paid to the Executive Directors and Non-executive 
Directors have been provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report forming part of this Annual 
Report.
11.	 Auditors and auditors’ observations
11.1	 Statutory auditor – M/s. Walker Chandiok & Co 
LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
No.001076N/N500013), were appointed as the 
Statutory Auditors of the Company to hold office 
from the conclusion of the Twenty Seventh Annual 
General Meeting till the conclusion of the Thirty 
Second Annual General Meeting of the Company, 
i.e. for a period of 5 (Five) consecutive years.
	
a.	
Statutory auditors’ observation(s) in audit 
report and directors’ explanation thereto
i.	
Note 5 of the standalone financial 
statements and consolidated financial 
statements relating to a show cause 
notice received by the Company from 
SEBI in respect of certain specific 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
77
transactions between the Company and 
its domestic subsidiaries and disclosure 
of a contingent liability in respect of 
earlier years:
	
It is clarified that, the Management has 
responded to the SCN and has denied the 
allegations made by the SEBI. Additionally, 
the 
management 
has 
also 
filed 
a 
settlement application in accordance 
with of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) 
Regulations, 2018 (the “SEBI Settlement 
Regulations”) 
to 
settle 
the 
matter 
without admission of guilt with respect 
to such allegations. This matter has been 
disclosed under contingent liability and 
the management believes that there is 
no material impact of this matter on the 
standalone and consolidated financial 
statements.
ii.	
Note 48 (j) of the standalone financial 
statements and Note 49 (h) of the 
consolidated 
financial 
statements 
regarding 
use 
of 
going 
concern 
assumption for the preparation of Ind AS 
financial statements due to existence of 
certain obligations failing which it could 
trigger an event of default within next 12 
months from reporting date:
	
It is clarified that, the Management is 
confident of meeting the obligations in 
the foreseeable future through various 
options including execution of the orders 
in hand, future business plans, seeking 
additional 
facilities 
and 
proposing 
extension for monetisation of specified 
assets, if required. Accordingly, the 
standalone and consolidated financial 
statements have been prepared on 
the basis that the Company is a going 
concern.
iii.	
Auditors’ 
observation 
in 
standalone 
financial statements regarding certain 
delay in depositing statutory dues:
	
It is clarified that the delay arose on 
account of mismatch in liquidity.
11.2	Secretarial auditor
a.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made 
thereunder, Mr. Chirag Shah, Partner, M/s. 
Chirag 
Shah 
and 
Associates, 
Company 
Secretaries 
(Membership 
No.5545 
and 
C.P.No.3498), had been appointed as the 
secretarial auditor to conduct the secretarial 
audit for FY 23. A secretarial audit report in 
Form No.MR-3 given by the secretarial auditor 
has been provided in an annexure which forms 
part of the Directors Report.
b.	
Secretarial 
auditors’ 
observation(s) 
in 
secretarial 
audit 
report 
and 
directors’ 
explanation thereto:
i.	
Auditor’s observation regarding non-
compliance with the constitution of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
for the period from October 7, 2022 to 
December 2, 2022:
	
It is clarified that Mr. Girish R. Tanti was 
the member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee since September 
28, 2015. Due to organisational changes 
pursuant to untimely demise of Mr. Tulsi 
R. Tanti, the then Chairman and Managing 
Director, the Board was reconstituted 
pursuant to which Mr. Girish R. Tanti was 
inter alia appointed as an Executive Vice 
Chairman w.e.f. October 7, 2022. Therefore, 
during the period from October 7, 2022 
to December 2, 2022, the requirement 
of all members of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee to be non-
executive was not met. Subsequently, the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
was reconstituted w.e.f. December 2, 
2022 by inducting Mr. Pranav T. Tanti, 
Non-Executive 
Director, 
in 
place 
of 
Mr. Girish R. Tanti.
11.3	 Cost auditor
	
The Company is required to maintain cost records 
as specified by the Central Government under 
Section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
accordingly such accounts and records are made 
and maintained by the Company for the year under 
review. M/s. D. C. Dave & Co., Cost Accountants, 
Mumbai 
(Registration 
No.000611), 
had 
been 
appointed as the cost auditors for conducting audit 
of the cost accounting records of the Company for 
FY 23. The due date of submitting the cost audit 
report by the cost auditor to the Company for FY 23 
is within a period of one hundred eighty days from 
the end of the financial year. The Company shall file 
a copy of the cost audit report within a period of 30 
(thirty) days from the date of its receipt. The cost 
audit report for FY 22 dated September 22, 2022 
issued by M/s. D. C. Dave & Co., Cost Accountants, 
Mumbai (Registration No.000611), was filed with 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of 
India, on October 20, 2022.
	
Further, in terms of Section 148 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014 and pursuant to the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, M/s. D. C. 
Dave & Co. Cost Accountants, Mumbai (Registration 
No.000611), have been appointed as cost auditors 
for conducting audit of the cost accounting records 
of the Company for FY 24 at a remuneration of 
₹ 0.05 Crore, which remuneration shall be subject 
to ratification by the shareholders at the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting.
Annual Report 2022-23
78
11.4	 Internal auditor
	
In terms of Section 138 of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 
2014, Mr. Shyamal Budhdev, Chartered Accountant 
(Membership No.43952) continues as the internal 
auditor of the Company.
	
During the year under review, there was no 
instance of fraud required to be reported to Central 
Government, Board of Directors or Audit Committee, 
as the case may be, by any of the auditors of 
the Company in terms of Section 143(12) of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
12.	 Particulars of loans, guarantees and 
investments
	
The particulars of loans, guarantees and investments 
in terms of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 
for the year under review have been provided in the 
notes to the financial statements which forms part 
of this Annual Report.
13.	 Particulars of contracts / arrangements 
with related parties
	
The particulars of contracts / arrangements with 
related parties referred to in Section 188(1) entered 
into during the year under review as required to be 
given in Form No.AOC-2, have been provided in an 
annexure which forms part of the Directors’ Report.
14.	 Particulars of conservation of energy, 
technology absorption, foreign exchange 
earnings and outgo
	
The 
particulars 
of 
conservation 
of 
energy, 
technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings 
and outgo for the year under review as required to 
be given under Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Rule 8(3) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014, has been provided in an 
annexure which forms part of the Directors’ Report.
15.	 Risk management
	
The Company has constituted a Risk Management 
Committee, the details of which have been provided 
in the Corporate Governance Report forming part 
of this Annual Report. The Board of Directors has 
approved a risk management policy which is available 
on the Company’s weblink at https://www.suzlon.
com/NewPdf/Shareholders_Information/Corporate_
Governance_Policies/2022-23/Risk_Management_
Policy.pdf. The Company’s risk management and 
mitigation strategy has been discussed in the 
Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
forming part of this Annual Report. The Board of 
Directors has not found any risk which in its view 
may threaten the existence of the Company.
16. Corporate social responsibility (CSR)
	
The Company has constituted a CSR Committee in 
accordance with Section 135(1) of the Companies 
Act, 2013, the details of which have been provided 
in the Corporate Governance Report forming part 
of this Annual Report. The Board of Directors has 
approved the CSR policy which is available on the 
Company’s weblink at https://www.suzlon.com/
pdf/about/cg/CSR-policy.pdf. The annual report on 
CSR activities as required to be given under Section 
135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 8 of the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014 has been provided in an annexure 
which forms part of the Directors’ Report.
17.	 Annual evaluation of board’s performance
	
The information pertaining to the annual evaluation 
of the performance of the Board, its Committees 
and individual directors as required to be provided 
in terms of Section 134(3)(p) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(4) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 has been provided in the 
Corporate Governance Report forming part of this 
Annual Report.
18.	 Directors / key managerial personnel 
appointed / resigned during the financial 
year under review and up to the date of 
this Report
18.1	 Appointment / re-appointment of executive / 
promoter directors:
	
During the year under review, the Shareholders, 
at their Twenty Seventh Annual General Meeting, 
approved appointment of Mr. Vinod R. Tanti (DIN: 
00002266) as the Wholetime Director and Chief 
Operating Officer of the Company with effect from 
October 1, 2022 for a period of three years, i.e. up 
to September 30, 2025, on the same terms and 
conditions as his earlier appointment.
	
However, due to untimely demise of Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti 
(DIN 00002283), the then Chairman and Managing 
Director of the Company on October 1, 2022, Mr. 
Vinod R. Tanti (DIN: 00002266) was appointed as the 
Managing Director of the Company w.e.f. October 7, 
2022 for a period of 3 (Three) years, i.e. up to October 
6, 2025; Mr. Girish R. Tanti (DIN 00002603), the Non-
executive Director of the Company was appointed as 
the Executive Director of the Company designated 
as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. October 7, 2022, 
for a period of 3 (Three) years, i.e. up to October 
6, 2025; and Mr. Pranav T. Tanti (DIN: 02957770) 
was appointed as the Non-executive Director w.e.f. 
October 7, 2022. The said appointments were 
approved by the Shareholders by way of ordinary 
/ special resolution, as the case may be, by way of 
postal ballot on January 5, 2023.
18.2	Re-appointment 
of 
directors 
retiring 
by 
rotation:
	
Mr. Girish R. Tanti (DIN: 00002603), the Executive 
Vice Chairman, and Mr. Vinod R. Tanti (DIN: 
00002266), the Chairman and Managing Director, 
retire by rotation at the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting and being eligible offer themselves 
for re-appointment.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
79
18.3	Change in Nominee Director:
	
During the year under review, Mr. Rakesh Sharma 
(DIN: 06695734), the Nominee Director appointed 
by SBI, ceased to be the Director of the Company 
w.e.f. June 8, 2022. The Board expresses its 
appreciation for the valuable services rendered and 
matured advice provided by Mr. Rakesh Sharma 
during his association with the Company.
	
REC Limited (REC) has nominated Mr. Ajay Mathur 
(DIN: 08805424), as a Nominee Director on the 
Board of the Company w.e.f. August 10, 2022. The 
appointment of Mr. Ajay Mathur as Director was 
approved by the shareholders of the Company at 
the Twenty Seventh Annual General Meeting held 
on September 29, 2022.
18.4	Appointment / resignation of independent 
director:
	
During the year under review and up to the date of 
this Report, none of the Independent Directors have 
resigned from the directorship of the Company.
	
Post March 31, 2023, Mr. Gautam Doshi, the 
Independent Director of the Company, whose first 
term as an Independent Director was expiring on 
May 3, 2023, was re-appointed as an Independent 
Director for a second term of three years with 
effect from May 4, 2023 to May 3, 2026 in terms of 
the special resolution passed by the shareholders 
of the Company by way of postal ballot on 
April 28, 2023.
18.5	Appointment / resignation of key managerial 
personnel:
	
During the year under review there is no change in 
the key managerial personnel of the Company.
	
Post March 31, 2023, Mr. Ashwani Kumar resigned as 
the Group Chief Executive Officer of the Company 
w.e.f. April 5, 2023 and Mr. J.P. Chalasani has been 
appointed as the Group Chief Executive Officer of 
the Company w.e.f. April 5, 2023.
18.6	Profile of directors seeking appointment / re-
appointment:
	
Profile of the directors seeking re-appointment as 
required to be given in terms of Regulation 36 of 
the Listing Regulations forms part of the Notice 
convening the ensuing Annual General Meeting of 
the Company.
19.	 Subsidiaries
19.1	As on March 31, 2023, the Company has 34 
subsidiaries, 1 joint venture and 5 associate 
companies in terms of the Companies Act, 2013, 
a list of which is given in Form No.AOC-1 forming 
part of this Annual Report. The salient features of 
the financial statements of the subsidiaries / joint 
ventures / associates and their contribution to 
the overall performance of the Company during 
the year under review has been provided in Form 
No.AOC-1 and notes to accounts respectively both 
forming part of this Annual Report.
19.2	 Companies which became subsidiaries during the financial year under review: None
19.3	Change of name of subsidiaries during the financial year under review: None
19.4	Companies which ceased to be subsidiaries / joint ventures during the financial year under review:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the entity
Country
Remarks
1.
Seventus LLC
USA
Dissolved
2.
Suzlon Wind Energy BH
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Sold
3.
Suzlon Generators Limited
India
Sold
4.
Suzlon Power Infrastructure Limited
India
Merged
5.
Vayudoot Solarfarms Limited
India
Sold
19.5	Consolidated financial statements:
	
The consolidated financial statements as required in terms of Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the Listing Regulations have been provided along with standalone financial statements. Further, a statement 
containing salient features of the financial statements of the subsidiaries / associate companies / joint ventures in 
Form No.AOC-1 as required to be given in terms of first proviso to Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 has 
been provided in a separate section which forms part of this Annual Report. The financial statements including the 
consolidated financial statements, financial statements of the subsidiaries and all other documents are available on 
the Company’s weblink at https://www.suzlon.com/in-en/investor-relations/annual-accounts-subsidiaries.
19.6 Secretarial audit report of material subsidiaries:
	
In terms of Regulation 24A of the Listing Regulations, the secretarial audit report of the unlisted material subsidiaries 
given by the practicing company secretary in Form No.MR-3 has been provided in an annexure which forms part of 
the Directors’ Report.
Annual Report 2022-23
80
20.	 Significant and material orders passed by 
the regulators
	
During the year under review, no significant and 
material orders impacting the going concern status 
and the Company’s operations in future have been 
passed by any Regulator or Court or Tribunal.
21.	 Internal 
financial 
controls 
and 
their 
adequacy
	
The details pertaining to internal financial control 
systems and their adequacy have been disclosed 
in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
forming part of this Annual Report.
22.	 Audit Committee
	
The Company has constituted an Audit Committee 
in accordance with Section 177(1) of the Companies 
Act, 2013, the details of which have been provided 
in the Corporate Governance Report forming part 
of this Annual Report. There has been no instance 
where the Board of Directors had not accepted 
any recommendation of the Audit Committee. The 
Company has formulated a whistle blower policy to 
provide vigil mechanism for employees including the 
Directors of the Company to report their genuine 
concerns about unethical behaviour, actual or 
suspected frauds or violation of the Company’s code 
of conduct for directors and senior management and 
the code of conduct for prevention of insider trading 
and which also provides for safeguards against 
victimisation. The whistle blower policy is available 
on the Company’s weblink at https://www.suzlon.
com/pdf/about/cg/Policy_Whistle-Blower.pdf.
23.	 Particulars of employees
23.1	Statement showing details of employees 
drawing remuneration exceeding the limits 
specified in Rule 5(2) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014:
	
A statement showing details of the employees in 
terms of Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014 has been provided in a separate annexure 
which forms part of the Directors’ Report. However, in 
terms of Section 136 of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
Annual Report excluding the aforesaid information is 
being sent to all the shareholders of the Company 
and others entitled thereto. Any shareholder 
interested in obtaining a copy of the same may write 
to the Company Secretary at the corporate office or 
the registered office of the Company.
23.2 Disclosures pertaining to the remuneration of 
the directors as required under Schedule V to 
the Companies Act, 2013:
	
Details pertaining to the remuneration of the 
Directors as required under Schedule V to the 
Companies Act, 2013 have been provided in the 
Corporate Governance Report forming part of this 
Annual Report.
23.3 Disclosures 
pertaining 
to 
payment 
of 
commission from subsidiaries in terms of 
Section 197(14) of the Companies Act, 2013:
	
During the year under review, the managing director 
or the whole-time director did not receive any 
commission / remuneration from any subsidiary of 
the Company.
23.4 Information pertaining to remuneration to 
be disclosed by listed companies in terms 
of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014:
	
The information / details pertaining to remuneration 
to be disclosed by listed companies in terms of 
Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013, read 
with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
have been provided in an annexure which forms 
part of the Directors’ Report.
23.5 Employees stock option plan (ESOP):
	
Post 
March 
31, 
2023, 
the 
Company 
has 
implemented the Employee Stock Option Plan 2022 
(“ESOP 2022”) for its employees and employees 
of its subsidiaries as per details given in point 4.5 
above. The ESOP 2022 formulated by the Company 
is in compliance with the applicable regulations. As 
required under Regulation 13 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits & Sweat Equity Regulations), 2021, the 
Company has obtained a certificate from the 
Secretarial Auditor of the Company stating that the 
ESOP 2022 has been implemented in accordance 
with these regulations and in accordance with the 
special resolution of the shareholders passed on 
September 29, 2022, a copy of which is available 
for inspection at the Registered Office and 
Corporate Office of the Company during specified 
time and the same is also available on the website 
of the Company www.suzlon.com to facilitate online 
inspection till conclusion of the Meeting.
24.	 Related party disclosures and manage-
ment discussion and analysis report
	
The disclosures pertaining to the related party 
transactions as required to be given in terms 
of Para A read with Para C of Schedule V of the 
Listing Regulations have been provided in an 
annexure which forms part of the Directors’ Report. 
Further, in terms of Regulation 34, the Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report on the operations 
and the financial position of the Company has been 
provided in a separate section which forms part of 
this Annual Report.
25.	 Corporate governance report
	
In terms of Para C of Schedule V of the Listing 
Regulations, a detailed report along with the 
auditors’ certificate of compliance on Corporate 
Governance has been provided in a separate section 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
81
which forms part of this Annual Report. Except as 
stated in the Corporate Governance Report, the 
Company is in compliance with the requirements 
and disclosures that have to be made in this regard. 
26.	 Business responsibility and sustainability 
report
	
In terms of Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, 
the Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report has been provided in a separate section 
which forms part of this Annual Report.
27.	 Transfer 
to 
investor 
education 
and 
protection fund (“IEPF”) set up by the 
Government of India
	
During the year under review, the Company was not 
required to transfer any unpaid or unclaimed dividend 
to the IEPF set up by the Government of India.
	
In terms of the provisions of the IEPF Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 
2019 (the “IEPF Rules”), Mrs. Geetanjali S. Vaidya, 
the Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of 
the Company, has been designated as the Nodal 
Officer of the Company for the purpose of the 
IEPF Rules.
28.	 Other disclosures
28.1 Details of deposits in terms of Rule 8(5) of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014:
	
During the year under review, the Company has not 
accepted any deposits falling within the purview of 
Section 73 of the Companies Act, 2013.
28.2 Details of equity shares with differential voting 
rights in terms of Rule 4(4) of the Companies 
(Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014:
	
During the year under review, the Company has not 
issued any equity shares with differential voting 
rights as to dividend, voting or otherwise.
28.3 Details of sweat equity shares in terms of Rule 
8(13) of the Companies (Share Capital and 
Debentures) Rules, 2014:
	
During the year under review, the Company has not 
issued any sweat equity shares.
28.4 Details of shares held in trust for the benefit 
of employees where the voting rights are not 
exercised directly by the employees in terms 
of Section 67 of the Companies Act, 2013:
	
Not applicable.
28.5 Detailed reasons for revision of financial 
statements and report of the Board in terms of 
Section 131(1) of the Companies Act, 2013:
	
The Company has not revised its financial 
statements or the Directors’ Report during the 
year under review in terms of Section 131 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
28.6 Disclosures in terms of sexual harassment of 
women at workplace (prevention, prohibition 
and redressal) Act, 2013:
	
The Company has in place an Internal Complaints 
Committee, 
constituted 
under 
the 
Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, which 
entertains the complaints made by any aggrieved 
woman. During the year under review, there was 
one case reported in this regard.
28.7 Disclosures pertaining to compliance with 
Secretarial Standards:
	
During the year under review, the Company has 
complied with the applicable Secretarial Standards.
28.8 Disclosures pertaining to credit rating:
	
Details pertaining to various credit ratings obtained 
by the Company have been provided in the 
Corporate Governance report forming part of this 
Annual Report.
28.9 Details pertaining to application made or any 
proceeding pending under the Insolvency and 
Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (31 of 2016):
	
During the year under review, there are no 
proceedings admitted or pending against the 
Company under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code, 2016 before any National Company Law 
Tribunal or other courts.
29.	 Acknowledgement
	
The Directors wish to place on record their 
appreciation for the co-operation and support 
received 
from 
the 
government 
and 
semi-
government agencies, especially from the Ministry 
of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), Government 
of India, all state level nodal agencies and all state 
electricity boards. The Directors are thankful to all 
the lenders, bankers, financial institutions and the 
Investor Group for their support to the Company. 
The Directors place on record their appreciation 
for continued support provided by the esteemed 
customers, suppliers, lenders, bankers, financial 
institutions, consultants, bondholders and the 
shareholders. The Directors also acknowledge 
the hard work, dedication and commitment of the 
employees. Their enthusiasm and unstinting efforts 
have enabled the Company to emerge stronger 
than ever, enabling it to maintain its position as one 
of the leading players in the wind industry.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place : Pune
Date : July 25, 2023
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
Annual Report 2022-23
82
Disclosure of particulars of contracts / arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties referred to 
in Section 188(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arms’ length transactions under third proviso thereto
1.	
Details of contracts or arrangement or transactions not at arm’s length basis: None
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
a.
Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship
-
b.
Nature of contracts / arrangements / transactions
-
c.
Duration of the contracts / arrangements / transactions
-
d.
Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transactions including the value, if any
-
e.
Justification for entering into such contracts or arrangements or transactions
-
f.
Date(s) of approval by the Board
-
g.
Amount paid as advances, if any
-
h.
Date on which the special resolution was passed in general meeting as required under first 
proviso to Section 188
-
2.	
Details of material* contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis: None
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
a.
Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship
-
b.
Nature of contracts / arrangements / transactions
-
c.
Duration of the contracts / arrangements / transactions
-
d.
Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transactions including the value, if any
-
e.
Date(s) of approval by the Board / shareholders, if any
-
f.
Amount paid as advances, if any
-
	
* The materiality threshold has been taken as 10% or more of the annual consolidated turnover of the Company as per the last 
audited financial statements.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place : Pune
Date : July 25, 2023
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
Annexure to Directors’ Report
Form No. AOC-2 for the year ended March 31, 2023
[Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 8(2) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014]
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
83
1.	
Conservation of energy
	
The Company has its Corporate Headquarter in Pune, India in the premise called ‘ONE EARTH’. It is a green, 
environmental-friendly campus. The Campus has been awarded the coveted LEED (Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design) Platinum rating and has also obtained GRIHA (Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment) 
green building certifications. It has minimal carbon footprint on the surrounding environment.
	
The Company has internal process for continuous efforts towards reduction and optimisation of energy consumption 
at its Corporate Office as well as all its manufacturing facilities by usage of latest available technical solutions. The 
Company also emphasises to utilise the maximum natural sources of energy instead of using electricity.
1.1.	 Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy:
	
The energy conservation measures taken are given as under. The measures undertaken by the Company has 
resulted in optimisation of energy consumption, savings in energy cost and environment protection.
Measures taken
Impact
Retrofitted 15nos. - 400-Watt MH Lights with 150-watt LED in phased 
manner at our Transformer manufacturing unit, Baroda.
Savings of estimated ₹ 0.45 Lakh per annum
Retrofitted 25 Halogen lights with LED Lights and replaced 4 Halogen 
lights with LED Lights at our WTG manufacturing unit, Daman.
Savings of estimated ₹ 0.55 Lakh per annum
Replaced 5 Nos 400W MH lights with 150W LED,
Replaced 10 Nos 250W MH lights with 50W LED,
Replaced 85 Nos 40W tube-light with 20W LED at NCU, Daman.
Savings of estimated ₹ 1.19 Lakh per annum
Replacement of 250-Watt HPMV Lights with LED of 160 & 90 watt.
Savings of estimated ₹ 20 Lakh per annum
Replacement of dual fitting 400-Watt HPMV Lights with LED of 300W
Savings of estimated ₹ 19 Lakh per annum
Change dust collective system with effective design and less power 
consumed equipment
Savings of estimated ₹ 4.17 Lakh per annum
1.2.	 Steps taken by the Company for utilising alternate sources of energy
	
The Company is in the business of selling and installing wind turbine generators and related equipment which is 
an excellent alternate source of energy. The Company promotes wind energy development, usage and distribution 
at all levels by actively engaging with all stakeholders like customers, banks, financial institutions, Government 
authorities and agencies related to renewable energy, etc. Further, the Company is aggressively pursuing cost 
reduction avenues which will make the sector more cost efficient going forward.
1.3.	 Capital investment on energy conservation equipment during FY 23
	
₹ 0.55 Crore capital investment done for energy saving equipment, LED lights retrofit (previous year: ₹ 0.35 Crore).
2.	
Technology absorption
2.1	 Efforts made towards technology absorption, adaption and innovation and benefits derived therefrom:
•	
During the year, the Company introduced 3MW series WTGs with Rotor Dia of 144 meters. These are larger 
rotor Wind Turbines resulting into higher renewable energy production.
•	
Control systems (including SCADA) are further upgraded to improve Turbine efficiencies.
•	
Continuous use of carbon in rotor blades has resulted into overall lighter turbines with stronger blades.
•	
The development / upgradation of new features and controls for existing products and transfers into the 
running fleet has resulted into improved reliability, reduced downtime and increased performance.
Annexure to Directors’ Report
Particulars of conservation of energy, technology absorption and foreign exchange earnings and 
outgo
Information as required under Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 is set out hereunder.
Annual Report 2022-23
84
2.2	 Imported technology (imported during the last 3 (three) years reckoned from the beginning of the financial 
year): None.
2.3 Research & Development (R & D):
	
Specific areas in which R & D is carried out by the Company are given as under:
•	
The Company continues to drive various R&D projects, operating out of world-class technology centres in 
Germany, The Netherlands, Denmark and India.
•	
The Company continues to focus on developing next generation turbines to further optimise the Levelised Cost 
of Energy (LCOE).
•	
Research and Development activities have been carried in following areas :
	
	
Improvement in PLF
	
	
Solar – Wind Hybrid project related electrical and control systems
	
	
Improvement in SCADA
2.4 Expenditure on R & D:
₹ in Crore
Particulars
FY 23
FY 22
Capital (including CWIP)
36.58
41.70
Recurring
65.93
19.44
Total
98.10
61.14
Total R & D expenditure as a % of total turnover
2.77%
1.54%
3.	
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo:
₹ in Crore
Particulars
FY 23
FY 22
Total foreign exchange earned
20.75
26.84
Total foreign exchange used
317.76
324.67
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place : Pune
Date : July 25, 2023
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
85
1.	
Brief outline on CSR policy of the Company:
	
CSR in Suzlon Energy Limited (“Suzlon” or the “Company”) is based on the premise that business and its environment 
are inter-dependent, and the organic link between them should be strengthened. Suzlon Foundation (“SF”), a Section 
8 non-profit organisation established in 2007, is the implementing arm of Suzlon’s CSR. More information on its CSR 
policy and programs is available on the Company’s weblink at https://www.suzlon.com/pdf/about/cg/CSR-policy.pdf.
	
During FY 23, SF continued to catalyse the social development ecosystem through its unique impact model 
‘SUZTAIN’. SF, with its philosophy of creating ‘Sustainable Development for Sustainable Economy,’ ensures that 
Suzlon Group integrates sustainability into its core business strategy. Suzlon’s CSR endeavours to ensure that the 
business policies and practices respect sustainability as their guiding principles.
	
Thus, Suzlon’s CSR Mission has been derived by the holistic understanding of the business, the social and the 
environmental arena into four main goals of:
•	
Having minimal impact on the natural environment;
•	
Enabling local communities to develop their potential;
•	
Empowering employees to be responsible civil society members;
•	
Committing ourselves to ethical business practices that are fair to all the stakeholders.
	
Powering a greener tomorrow for Suzlon, therefore involves responsible management of its financial, natural, social, 
human, and physical capitals. Suzlon focuses on creating sustainable value by benefiting the planet and society 
while enhancing its market performance. This approach of conducting responsible business has resulted in cost 
saving, improved stakeholder relationships, and bettered risk management. Through its CSR and Sustainability 
strategy, Suzlon is achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), UN Global Compact Principles, and 
National Voluntary Guidelines (NVGs) since 2008. Suzlon with its measurable, impactful and self-sustaining CSR 
activities aims at supporting rural and underprivileged communities to become self-reliant. The SUZTAIN CSR 
model evolved from a provider-beneficiary to a partnership approach. It considers all the key stakeholders to plan, 
implement, monitor and support village level sustainable development interventions.
	
Suzlon CSR model – ‘SUZTAIN’ is a unique approach which has matured from an existing provider-beneficiary 
approach for development to a partnership approach wherein local communities, development functionaries, 
employees, company CSR teams, government departments and NGOs work together in planning, implementing, 
monitoring and sustaining village level sustainable development interventions. The approach is implemented 
through ‘Engage-Empower-Sustain’ principles of Suzlon’s CSR.
	
The long term expected impact of the CSR program in the remote rural areas is to form, strengthen and 
institutionalise the Village Development Committees (VDC). These empowered community-based institutions will 
over a period of time steer the development process of the village when Suzlon’s CSR exits from the village to focus 
on other unmet strategic development needs of the area. The VDC is formed to bring collectivism in the village. The 
VDC then undertakes a journey through a seven stage social engineering and behaviour change process through a 
systematic handholding with knowledge, awareness, skills and network connects.
	
The mid-term expected impact of the CSR program is to address other significant but unarticulated need of the 
most neglected persons of the community like the old, under-fives, sparrows, local civic environment, specially 
abled and vulnerable adolescent girls who will never find their needs articulated through the VDC due to the village 
power dynamics and lack of social awareness in the initial period. Thus, Suzlon’s CSR has programmed the “Zero” 
initiatives which are undertaken across the states as and when resources are available. These include the following 
initiatives towards achieving:
•	
Zero garbage – Managing plastic and wet waste responsibly and sustainably;
•	
Zero sparrow deaths – Creating bird nests, feeders and water troughs;
•	
Zero waste – Recyclable waste materials into innovative rural use products;
•	
Zero darkness – Lighting up un-electrified households and hamlets;
•	
Zero malnutrition – Reducing malnutrition deaths of under-fives with Vitamin A and de-worming tablets;
Annexure to Directors’ Report
Annual report on CSR activities for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23
86
•	
Zero drought – Trees plantation and Water conservation enhancing ground water table;
•	
Zero COVID – Supporting with devices and materials to prevent COVID infection.
	
The immediate expected impact is the integrated development of the community, by conducting activities that 
address the immediate basic needs of the entire village. The basket of interventions is very diverse, unique and 
customised for each and every village depending on the needs of its people. The implementation is through 
complete community participation harnessing available traditional local know-how and modern practices. Each 
of the activities conducted under the CSR program are categorised into one of the six thematic areas of Civic 
amenities, Education, Environment, Health, Livelihood and Empowerment.
2.	
Composition of CSR committee:
Name of director and nature of directorship
Chairman / Member
Meetings of CSR 
committee attended 
during the year
Late Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti, Chairman & Managing Director1
Chairman
1 (out of 1)
Mr. Girish R. Tanti, Executive Director
Member
1 (out of 1)
Mr. Per Hornung Pedersen, Independent Director
Member
1 (out of 1)
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti, Chairman and Managing Director2
Chairman
0 (out of 0)
1Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti passed away on October 1, 2022 and therefore ceased as Member.
2Mr. Vinod R. Tanti was inducted as the Member and appointed as the Chairman w.e.f. October 7, 2022.
3.	 Provide the web-link where composition of CSR committee, CSR policy and CSR projects 
approved by the board are disclosed on the website of the Company: The details of composition 
of the CSR committee is available on the weblink of the Company at https://www.suzlon.com/in-en/about-suzlon/
board-of-directors, the CSR policy is available on the Company’s weblink at https://www.suzlon.com/pdf/about/cg/
CSR-policy.pdf. The CSR projects will be made available on the website of the Company.
4.	
Provide the details of impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule 
(3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable 
(attach the report): Not applicable.
5. 
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies 
(Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the 
financial year, if any: Not applicable.
6. 
Average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5): Not applicable since the average net profit for 
the last three financial years (preceding the financial year under review) is negative.
7.	
CSR obligation
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
a.
Two per cent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
N.A.
b.
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years
N.A.
c.
Amount required to be set off for the financial year
N.A.
d.
Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c)
N.A.
	
The average net profit for the last three financial years (preceding the financial year under review) is negative hence 
there is no mandatory obligation to spend on CSR, however the Company has voluntarily spent on CSR activities, 
the details of which have been provided in point 8(c) below.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
87
8.	
CSR spending for current year
a.	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year: There is no mandatory obligation to spend on CSR, 
however the Company has voluntarily spent on CSR activities, the details of which have been provided in point 
8(c) below.
b.	
Details of CSR amount spent against on-going projects for the financial year: Not applicable for the year 
under review.
c.	
Details of CSR amount spent against other than on-going projects for the financial year:
₹ in Crore
Sr. 
No.
CSR Project or 
activity identified
Sector in 
which the 
Project is 
covered
Projects or programs (i) 
local area or others; (ii) 
specify the state and 
district where projects or 
programs were undertaken
Amount 
outlay 
(budget) 
project or 
programs 
wise
Amount spent on the 
projects or programs
Cumulative 
expenditure 
upto the 
reporting 
period
Amount spent 
directly or through 
implementing 
agency
Direct 
expenditure 
on projects or 
programs
Over-
heads
1
SUZTAIN-
Sustainable need 
based village 
development in 
Andhra Pradesh 
Villages
Education
Achammapalli, Belguppa, 
Borampalli,Tagguparthy, 
Baghyanagar,Vajrakarur, 
Velugonda,Shekshanpalli, 
Raketla, Ragulapadu, 
Pottipadu
0.052
0.050
0.002
0.052
Suzlon Foundation 
(CSR Reg. 
No.CSR00003382)
Empowerment
0.030
0.028
0.001
0.030
Environment
0.077
0.074
0.003
0.077
Sub Total (1)
0.159
0.152
0.006
0.159
2
SUZTAIN-
Sustainable need 
based village 
development in 
Gujarat Villages
Civic 
Amenities
Mata na Madh, Sayan 
Moti, Fulara, Jangadiya, 
Dhareshi, Goyla, Valka 
Nana,Sambhada, Khatiya, 
Mota Bhadra
0.042
0.041
0.002
0.042
Suzlon Foundation 
(CSR Reg. 
No.CSR00003382)
Sub Total (2)
0.042
0.041
0.002
0.042
3
SUZTAIN-
Sustainable need 
based village 
development 
in Maharashtra 
Villages
Civic 
Amenities
Ninaisada, Aichale, 
Akhatwade, Amkhel, 
Balwand, Basar, 
Brahmanvel, Dhandane, 
Hatti-Indri, Kaltek, Khori, 
Petale, Raikot, Ranjangaon, 
Shanimandal, Shinband, 
Thanepada, Tilali, Tikane, 
Valve, Vavad, Vitave
0.085
0.082
0.003
0.085
Suzlon Foundation 
(CSR Reg. 
No.CSR00003382)
Environment
0.069
0.066
0.003
0.069
Health
0.021
0.020
0.001
0.021
Livelihood
0.002
0.002
0.000
0.002
Sub Total (3)
0.177
0.170
0.007
0.177
4
SUZTAIN-
Sustainable need 
based village 
development in 
Madhya Pradesh 
Villages
Civic 
Amenities
Jhalwa, Ringnod, 
Mandwi, Behpur, 
Luhari, Mamatkheda, 
Hariyakheda, Gopalpura, 
Iserthuni, Rinchha Gurjar, 
Dhatravada,Bakhatgarh, 
Jharipada, Jalodkheta, 
Reshamgarah, Pipliya, 
Mundlaram, Kharsodkalan, 
Kamed, Kamthana, Jhar, 
Sandla
0.052
0.050
0.002
0.052
Suzlon Foundation 
(CSR Reg. 
No.CSR00003382)
Environment
0.018
0.018
0.001
0.018
Livelihood
0.105
0.100
0.004
0.105
Sub Total (4)
0.175
0.168
0.007
0.175
5
SUZTAIN-
Sustainable need 
based village 
development in 
Rajasthan Villages
Civic 
Amenities
Ketu Kalan, Kui Inda, 
Ketu Heman, Bara Kallan, 
BasniDawara, Heeradesar, 
Sujan Nagar, Sagat Nagar, 
Nadsar, Govindpura, Ustra
0.043
0.042
0.002
0.043
Suzlon Foundation 
(CSR Reg. 
No.CSR00003382)
Education
0.035
0.033
0.002
0.035
Environment
0.031
0.030
0.001
0.031
Health
0.028
0.026
0.001
0.028
Livelihood
0.030
0.029
0.001
0.030
Sub Total (5)
0.167
0.160
0.007
0.167
Annual Report 2022-23
88
Sr. 
No.
CSR Project or 
activity identified
Sector in 
which the 
Project is 
covered
Projects or programs (i) 
local area or others; (ii) 
specify the state and 
district where projects or 
programs were undertaken
Amount 
outlay 
(budget) 
project or 
programs 
wise
Amount spent on the 
projects or programs
Cumulative 
expenditure 
upto the 
reporting 
period
Amount spent 
directly or through 
implementing 
agency
Direct 
expenditure 
on projects or 
programs
Over-
heads
6
SUZTAIN-
Sustainable need 
based village 
development in 
Tamilnadu Villages
Education
Tirunelveli, Coimbtore, 
Tenkasi, Thoothukudi, 
Tirpur,Kudankulam, 
Kumbilampadu, 
Radhapuram, Irukkandurai, 
Nakkaneri, Koliyankulam
0.034
0.033
0.001
0.034
Suzlon Foundation 
(CSR Reg. 
No.CSR00003382)
Sub Total (6)
0.034
0.033
0.001
0.034
Total
0.754
0.724
0.030
0.754
d.	
Amount spent in administrative overheads:. ₹ 0.30 Crore
e.	
Amount spent on impact assessment, if applicable: Not applicable for the year under review.
f. 
Total amount spent for the financial year (8b+8c+8d+8e): ₹ 0.75 Crore
g.	
Excess amount for set off, if any: Not applicable.
9.	
CSR spending for previous years
a.	
Details of unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years: Nil.
b.	
Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for on-going projects of the preceding financial year(s): 
Not applicable.
10.	 In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so 
created or acquired through CSR spent in the financial year (asset-wise details): Not applicable.
11.	 Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit 
as per section 135(5): Not applicable.
12.	 A responsibility statement of the CSR committee that the implementation and monitoring of 
CSR policy, is in compliance with the CSR objectives and policy of the Company:
	
We hereby affirm that the implementation and monitoring of the CSR policy is in compliance / will be in compliance 
with the CSR objectives and policy of the Company.
Sd/-
Vinod R. Tanti (DIN:00002266),
Chairman of CSR Committee.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place : Pune
Date : July 25, 2023
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
89
1.	
The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees of 
the Company for the financial year under review:
Name of directors
Category
~Ratio to median remuneration1 
(including incentive)
Late Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti2
Erstwhile Chairman and Managing 
Director
75.27
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director2
82.24
Mr. Girish R. Tanti3
Executive Vice Chairman
1.17
Mr. Marc Deseadeleer
Non-executive Independent Director
0.81
Mr. Per Hornung Pedersen
Non-executive Independent Director
1.21
Mr. Rakesh Sharma4
Non-executive Director
0.16
Mr. Sameer Shah
Non-executive Independent Director
1.04
Mrs. Seemantinee Khot
Non-executive Independent Director
0.85
Mr. Gautam Doshi
Non-executive Independent Director
0.62
Mr. Hiten Timbadia
Non-executive Director
0.81
Mr. Ajay Mathur5
Non-executive Director
0.49
Mr. Pranav T. Tanti6
Non-executive Director
0.33
	
1 The Non-executive directors are not paid any remuneration except sitting fees for attending the meetings of the 
Board and / or Committees thereof which is within the limits prescribed by the Companies Act, 2013.
	
2 Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti passed away on October 1, 2022. Mr. Vinod R. Tanti has been appointed as the Chairman and 
Managing Director w.e.f. October 7, 2022.
	
3 Mr. Girish R. Tanti has been appointed as the Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. October 7, 2022 however without 
remuneration. However, he is entitled to sitting fees for attending the meetings of the Board of Directors / 
committees thereof.
	
4 Mr. Rakesh Sharma ceased to be a Director w.e.f. June 8, 2022
	
5 Mr. Ajay Mathur was appointed as a Nominee Director of REC Limited (Lender) w.e.f. August 10, 2022 and sitting 
fees paid to REC Limited.
	
6 Mr. Pranav T. Tanti was appointed as an Additional non-executive Director w.e.f. October 7, 2022 and was 
subsequently appointed as Director w.e.f. January 5, 2023 in terms of approval granted by the shareholders by 
way of postal ballot.
Annexure to Directors’ Report
Information pertaining to remuneration in terms of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 
5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 for the year ended 
March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23
90
2. 
The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO) and Company Secretary (CS) for the financial year under review:
Name
Category
~ Increase/ (decrease) (%)
(including incentive)
(excluding incentive)
Late Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti1
Erstwhile Chairman and Managing 
Director
334.43%
136.67%
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti2
Chairman and Managing Director
110.37%
69.53%
Mr. Ashwani Kumar3
Group Chief Executive Officer
69.45%
26.99%
Mr. J.P. Chalasani4
Group Chief Executive Officer
N.A.
N.A.
Mr. Himanshu Mody5
Group Chief Financial Officer
52.00%
0.86%
Mrs. Geetanjali  
S. Vaidya6
Company Secretary
78.60%
22.89%
	
1 Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti passed away on October 1, 2022. He was re-appointed as the Managing Director of the Company 
with effect from April 1, 2022 for a further term of three years, i.e. up to March 31, 2025 at a remuneration of ₹ 5 
Crore p.a. plus incentives and perquisites. The remuneration paid during FY 23 is for the period from April 1, 2022 
to October 1, 2022 and includes variable pay forming part of remuneration.
	
2 In terms of approval granted by the shareholders of the Company at the Twenty Seventh Annual General Meeting 
held on September 29, 2022, Mr. Vinod R. Tanti was re-appointed as the Wholetime Director and Chief Operating 
Officer of the Company with effect from October 1, 2022 for a further term of three years, i.e. up to September 30, 
2025, at a remuneration of ₹ 3.20 Crores p.a. plus incentives and perquisites. However due to sad demise of Mr. 
Tulsi R. Tanti, the then Chairman and Managing Director of the Company, Mr. Vinod R. Tanti was appointed as the 
Managing Director of the Company with effect from October 7, 2022 for a term of three years, i.e. up to October 
6, 2025, at a remuneration of ₹ 5.00 Crores p.a. plus incentives and perquisites and approval of the shareholders 
was obtained by way of special resolution dated January 5, 2023 in terms of the postal ballot initiated vide postal 
ballot notice dated December 5, 2022, the results of which were declared on January 6, 2023. Accordingly, the 
remuneration paid to Mr. Vinod R. Tanti during the period from April 1, 2022 to October 6, 2022 was in the capacity 
as Wholetime Director and Chief Operating Officer in terms of the special resolution passed by the shareholders 
of the Company on September 29, 2022 and the remuneration paid during the period from October 7, 2022 to 
March 31, 2023 was in the capacity as the Managing Director in terms of the special resolution passed by the 
shareholders of the Company on January 5, 2023.
	
3 Mr. Ashwani Kumar ceased to be the Group Chief Executive Officer w.e.f. April 5, 2023.
	
4 Mr. J. P. Chalasani was appointed as the Group Chief Executive Officer with effect from April 5, 2023.
	
5 The remuneration paid to Mr. Himanshu Mody includes one-time payment towards project-based incentive in 
addition to variable pay forming part of remuneration.
	
6 The remuneration paid to Mrs. Geetanjali S. Vaidya includes one-time payment towards project-based incentive in 
addition to variable pay forming part of remuneration.
3.	
The percentage increase in the median remuneration (including incentive) of employees in the 
financial year under review: 25.48%.
4.	
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company as at the end of the financial 
year under review: 1,451
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
91
5.	
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the key 
managerial personnel in the last financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase 
in the key managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any 
exceptional circumstances for increase in managerial remuneration:
Particulars
~ Increase/ (decrease) 
(%) in remuneration
(including incentive)
~ Increase/ (decrease) 
(%) in remuneration
(excluding incentive)
Average salary of all employees (other than KMPs)
32.46%
15.28%
Average salary of all KMPs mentioned at point 2 above 
74.42%
41.21%
	
Justification for increase in average remuneration of the key managerial personnel – The average salary of KMPs 
seems to be higher as compared to other employees on account of salary revision, one-time payment towards 
project-based incentive in addition to variable pay, as the case may be. For details refer to point no.2 above.
6.	
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company:
	
The Company affirms that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place : Pune
Date : July 25, 2023
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
Annual Report 2022-23
92
The disclosures as required under Para A read with Para C of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations for the year ended 
March 31, 2023 are as under:
₹ in Crore
Type of relationship
Name
Amount outstanding 
as at March 31, 2023
Maximum amount 
outstanding during 
the financial year
Subsidiaries
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
82.39
82.39
AE Rotor Holding B.V.
756.72
756.72
SE Forge Limited
25.29
25.29
Suzlon Global Services Limited
1,219.12
1,455.71
Sirocco Renewables Limited
1.97
1.97
Associates
Heramba Renewables Limited
0.01
0.01
Entities in which 
Directors are 
interested
None
-
-
Note: No loans have been granted by the Company to any person for the purpose of investing in the shares of Suzlon 
Energy Limited or any of its subsidiaries.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place : Pune
Date : July 25, 2023
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
Annexure to Directors’ Report
Disclosures as required under Para A read with Para C of Schedule V to the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
93
To,
The Members,
SUZLON ENERGY LIMITED
(CIN: L40100GJ1995PLC025447)
Regd. Office: “Suzlon”, 5, Shrimali Society,
Near Shri Krishna Complex, Navrangpura,
Ahmedabad-380009.
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence 
to good corporate practices by Suzlon Energy Limited 
(hereinafter called the “Company”). The Secretarial Audit 
was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable 
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts / statutory 
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also the 
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorised representatives during the conduct of the 
secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 
the Company has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended on 31.03.2023, generally complied 
with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also 
that the Company has proper Board-processes and 
compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the Company for the financial year ended on 31.03.2023 
according to the provisions of:
(i).	 The Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) and the rules 
made there under;
(ii).	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made there under;
(iii).	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed there under;
(iv).	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and 
the rules and regulations made there under to the 
extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct 
Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;
(v).	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011,;
Annexure to Directors’ Report
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31.03.2023
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India 
(Prohibition 
of 
Insider 
Trading) 
Regulations, 2015;
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018;
d.	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021;
e.	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021 (Not Applicable to the 
Company during the audit period);
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the 
Companies Act and dealing with client;
g.	
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 
(Not Applicable to the Company during the 
audit period);
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 (Not 
Applicable to the Company during the audit 
period);
i.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations 2015;
j.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India 
(Depositories 
and 
Participants) 
Regulations, 2018.
(vi).	 As informed to us, there are no other Sector 
specific laws which are specifically applicable to 
the Company.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
a.	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India;
b.	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the 
Company with Stock Exchange(s).
Annual Report 2022-23
94
During the period under review, the Company has 
complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned above.
We further report that, the Board of Directors of the 
Company is duly constituted with proper balance of 
Executive 
Directors, 
Non-Executive 
Directors 
and 
Independent Directors. The changes in the composition 
of the Board of Directors that took place during the 
period under review were carried out in compliance with 
the provisions of the Act.
However, during the period under review, the Company 
has received Notices from National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE) under 
provisions of Regulation 19(1)(b) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 pertaining 
to non-compliance with the constitution of Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee for the period from 
7th October 2022 to 2nd December 2022. The 
Company has since rectified the non-compliance w.e.f. 
2nd December 2022 and paid the necessary fine to NSE 
and BSE within the prescribed time.
As per the Information provided by the management, 
adequate notices were given to all the directors to 
schedule the Board Meetings; agenda and detailed notes 
on agenda were sent at least seven days in advance 
and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further 
information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at 
the meeting.
All the decisions in the board meetings were carried 
through by majority while there were no dissenting 
members’ views, and hence not captured and recorded 
as part of the minutes.
We further report that, there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with the applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
We further report that, during the year under review, 
the Company has passed following Special Resolutions 
in General Meetings:
Through 
Annual 
General 
Meeting 
dated 
29th 
September, 2022:
1.	
To approve re-appointment of Mr. Vinod R. Tanti as 
the Wholetime Director & Chief Operating Officer of 
the Company;
2.	
To amend the Articles of Association of the 
Company;
3.	
To approve implementation of the ‘Employee Stock 
Option Plan 2022’;
4.	
To approve grant of employee stock options under 
the ‘Employee Stock Option Plan 2022’ to the 
eligible employees of the Company’s Subsidiary 
Companies;
And through Postal Ballot Notice dated 5th December 
2022, 
the 
results 
of 
which 
were 
declared 
on 
6th January 2023 and the resolution deemed to be 
passed on 5th January 2023:
1.	
To approve appointment of Mr. Vinod R. Tanti as the 
Managing Director of the Company;
And, through Postal Ballot Notice dated 27th March 2023, 
the results of which were declared on 29th April 2023 and 
the resolution deemed to be passed on 28th April 2023:
1.	
To appoint Mr. Gautam Doshi as an Independent 
Director of the Company for a second term of 
three years.
We further report that, during the audit period and up 
to the date of this report, following are the actions / 
events undertaken by the Company which may have a 
major bearing on the Company’s affairs in pursuance of 
the above referred laws, rules, guidelines, standards etc.
1.	
Suzlon Generators Limited (“SGL”) ceased to be 
subsidiary of the Company pursuant to completion 
of divestment of the Company’s 75% stake in SGL to 
Voith Turbo Private Limited on 7th April 2022.
2.	
Suzlon Energy Limited (“SEL”) and its certain 
specified 
subsidiaries 
(hereinafter 
collectively 
referred to as “Suzlon The Group” or the “STG”) had 
submitted a proposal to the then Existing Lenders 
for 
refinancing 
the 
outstanding 
restructured 
facilities (the “Refinancing Proposal”) on the basis 
of sanction letters from REC Limited and Indian 
Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited 
(the “New Lenders”). Pursuant to the Refinancing 
Proposal, 
4,10,000 
Optionally 
Convertible 
Debentures 
(“OCDs”) 
having 
face 
value 
of 
Rs. 1,00,000 each issued by the Company to then 
Existing Lenders were converted into 57,14,28,572 
equity shares having face value of Rs. 2 each.
3.	
The Company, on 31st October 2022, allotted 
240,00,00,000 partly paid-up equity shares having 
a face value of Rs. 2.00 each with Re.1.00 paid-up 
at an issue price of Rs. 5.00 per equity share, i.e. at 
a premium of Rs. 3.00 per equity share, on a rights 
basis to the existing equity shareholders of the 
Company in the ratio of five equity shares for every 
twenty-one fully paid-up equity shares held by the 
existing equity shareholders on the record date. The 
applicants were required to pay Rs. 2.50 per equity 
share on application of which Rs. 1.00 per equity 
share being adjusted towards face value and Rs. 1.50 
per equity share being adjusted towards securities 
premium and the balance Rs. 2.50 on the First and 
Final Call of which Rs. 1.00 per equity share being 
adjusted towards face value and Rs. 1.50 per equity 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
95
share being adjusted towards securities premium. 
Subsequently, the Securities Issue Committee of 
the Board of Directors of the Company has, on 
24th February 2023, approved making of the First 
and Final Call of Rs. 2.50 per partly paid-up equity 
share and the Company having received the call 
money, the Securities Issue Committee has, from 
time to time, approved conversion of 235,18,63,294 
partly paid-up equity shares into fully paid-up 
equity shares.
4.	
Untimely demise of Shri Tulsi R. Tanti, the Founder, 
the Chairman & Managing Director, and one of the 
promoters of the Company on 1st October 2022.
5.	
Vayudoot Solarfarms Limited has ceased to be the 
subsidiary of the Company pursuant to transfer of 
its entire 51.05% shareholding to Aries Renewables 
Private Limited on 3rd December 2022.
6.	
The Company had obtained the shareholders’ 
approval for issue of 49,85,88,439 Convertible 
Warrants having a face value of Rs. 2/- each for cash 
at an issue price of Rs. 10.11 per Warrant on Private 
Placement / preferential issue basis to REC Limited, 
one of the lenders to the Company, vide Offer Letter 
dated 25th March 2022 in accordance with Regulation 
164(1) of Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018 (“ICDR Regulations”). However, 
REC Limited did not subscribe to the said offer and 
accordingly the special resolution for issuance of 
the warrants lapsed in terms of Regulation 170(1) of 
the ICDR Regulations and the Board has withdrawn 
the aforesaid preferential issue.
Chirag Shah
Partner
Chirag Shah and Associates
FCS No. 5545
Place: Ahmedabad 
C P No.: 3498
Date: July 25, 2023 
UDIN: F005545E000673597
Peer Review Cert. No. 704/2020
This report is to be read with our letter of even date 
which is annexed as “Annexure A” and forms an integral 
part of this report.
To,
The Members
SUZLON ENERGY LIMITED.
(CIN: L40100GJ1995PLC025447)
Regd. Office: “Suzlon”, 5, Shrimali Society,
Near Shri Krishna Complex, Navrangpura,
Ahmedabad-380009.
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read 
along with this letter.
Management’s Responsibility
1.	
It is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company to maintain secretarial records, devise 
proper systems to ensure compliance with the 
provisions of all applicable laws and regulations 
and to ensure that the systems are adequate and 
operate effectively.
Auditor’s Responsibility
2.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
secretarial records, standards and procedures 
followed by the Company with respect to 
secretarial compliances.
'Annexure A’
3.	
We believe that audit evidence and information 
obtain 
from 
the 
Company’s management 
is 
adequate and appropriate for us to provide a basis 
for our opinion.
4.	
Wherever 
required, 
we 
have 
obtained 
the 
management representation about the compliance 
of laws, rules and regulations and happening of 
events etc.
Disclaimer
5.	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Company 
nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of 
the Company.
Chirag Shah
Partner
Chirag Shah and Associates
Place: Ahmedabad 	
FCS No. 5545
Date: July 25, 2023
C P No.: 3498
Annual Report 2022-23
96
To,
The Members,
SE Forge Limited
CIN: U27310GJ2006PLC048563
5, Shrimali Society, Navrangpura,
Ahmedabad-380009
Gujarat.
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the 
adherence to good corporate practices by SE FORGE 
LIMITED (hereinafter called the Company). Secretarial 
Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a 
reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/
statutory compliances and expressing our opinion 
thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also the 
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 
the Company has, during the audit period covering 
the financial year ended on 31st March, 2023 generally 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board-processes 
and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 
2023 according to the provisions of:
i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules 
made thereunder;
ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder; (Not 
applicable for the period under review);
iii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed there under;
iv)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and 
the rules and regulations made thereunder to the 
extent of External Commercial Borrowings;(Foreign 
Direct Investment Guidelines and Overseas Direct 
Investment Regulations are not applicable to the 
Company during the audit period);
v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2023
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
(a)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011:(Not applicable 
for the period under review);
(b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015:(Not 
applicable 
for 
the 
period 
under review);
(c)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018:(Not applicable for the 
period under review);
(d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021:(Not applicable for 
the period under review);
(e)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible 
Securities) Regulations, 2021:(Not applicable 
for the period under review);
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the 
Companies Act and dealing with client;
(g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 
2021:(Not 
applicable 
for 
the 
period 
under review);
(h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018:(Not 
applicable for the period under review);
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018.
vi)	
Other laws as informed by management specifically 
applicable to the Company:
a)	
Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 and rules 
made thereunder.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India with respect to 
Board and General Meeting, Directors Report 
(SS-1 and SS-2);
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
97
(ii)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (Not applicable for the period 
under review).
We further report that the compliance by the Company 
of applicable financial laws like Direct and Indirect Tax 
Laws hasn’t been reviewed in this audit since the same 
has been subject to review by statutory financial audits 
and other designated professionals.
During the period under review and as per the 
explanations and clarifications given to us and the 
representations made by the Management, the Company 
has generally complied with the provisions of the Act, 
Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, etc. mentioned above.
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted, 
with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the 
constitution / composition of the Board of directors that 
took place during the period under review were carried 
out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
There is a system for sending the notice to all directors 
to schedule the Board Meetings, the agenda and 
detailed notes on agenda were sent at least seven days 
in advance and a system exists for seeking and obtaining 
further information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at 
the meeting.
All the decisions in the Board Meeting were carried 
through by majority decision while there were no 
dissenting member’s views and hence not captured and 
recorded as part of the minutes.
We further report that as per the explanations given to 
us and the representations made by the Management 
and relied upon by us there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the 
Company hasn’t taken any actions/ enter into events 
having a major bearing on the Company’s affairs.
For Shailesh Indapurkar & Associates
Company Secretaries
CS Shailesh Indapurkar
Proprietor
ACS 17306
C. P. No: 5701
Place: Pune
Date : 30/05/2023
UDIN: A017306E000423987
This report is to be read with our letter of even date 
which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral 
part of this report.
To,
The Members,
SE Forge Limited
CIN: U27310GJ2006PLC048563
5, Shrimali Society, Navrangpura,
Ahmedabad-380009
Gujarat.
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance 
of 
secretarial 
record 
is 
the 
responsibility of the management of the company. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes 
as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the 
secretarial records. The verification was done on 
test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in secretarial records. We believe that the processes 
and practices, we followed provide a reasonable 
basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and 
appropriateness of financial records and Books of 
Accounts of the company.
‘Annexure A’
4.	
Where ever required, we have obtained the 
Management representation about the Compliance 
of laws, rules and regulations and happening of 
events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate 
and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, 
Standards is the responsibility of management. 
Our examination was limited to the verification of 
procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the company nor of 
the efficacy or effectiveness with which the 
management has conducted the affairs of the 
company.
For Shailesh Indapurkar & Associates
Company Secretaries
CS Shailesh Indapurkar
Proprietor
ACS 17306
C. P. No: 5701
Place: Pune
Date: 30.05.2023
Annual Report 2022-23
98
TO,
THE MEMBERS,
SUZLON GUJARAT WIND PARK LIMITED
(CIN: U40108GJ2004PLC044409)
“Suzlon”, 5 Shrimali Society,
Near Shri Krishna Complex,
Navrangpura,
Ahmedabad-380009.
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park 
Limited (hereinafter called the Company). Secretarial 
Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a 
reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/
statutory compliances and expressing our opinion 
thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also 
the information provided by the Company, its officers, 
agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in 
our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period 
covering the financial year ended on 31st March, 2023, 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board-processes 
and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the Company for the financial year ended on 31st March, 
2023 according to the provisions of:
(i).	 The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules 
made there under;
(ii).	 The 
Securities 
Contracts 
(Regulation) 
Act, 
1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder: 
- Not Applicable to the Company during the 
Audit period;
(iii).	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv).	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent 
of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct 
Investment and External Commercial Borrowings: 
- Not Applicable to the Company during the 
Audit period;
(v).	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) are: -
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; -Not Applicable 
to the company during the Audit period;
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015; -Not Applicable to the company during 
the Audit period;
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018; -Not Applicable to the 
company during the Audit period;
d.	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations 2021; -Not Applicable to the 
company during the Audit period;
e.	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations 2021; -Not Applicable to the 
company during the Audit period;
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the 
Companies Act and dealing with client;
g.	
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations 2021; 
-Not Applicable to the company during the 
Audit period;
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations 2018; 
-Not Applicable to the company during the 
Audit period;
i.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations 
2015: 
-Not 
Applicable to the company during the 
Audit period; and
j.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 
2018: -Not Applicable to the company during 
the Audit period.
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2023
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule No.9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
99
(vi).	 Other Applicable Acts; - As informed to us there are 
no specific laws which are specifically applicable to 
the company.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
a.	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India;
b.	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the 
Company with Stock Exchange(s): - Not Applicable 
to the company during the Audit period.
During the period under review the Company has 
complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned 
above.
We further report that, the Board of Directors of the 
Company is duly constituted with proper balance of 
Executive 
Directors, 
Non-Executive 
Directors 
and 
Independent Directors. The changes in the composition 
of the Board of Directors that took place during the 
period under review were carried out in compliance with 
the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda 
were sent at least seven days in advance, and a system 
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting 
and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
All the decisions of the Board Meetings were carried 
through by majority while there were no dissenting 
members’ views and hence not captured and recorded 
as part of the minutes.
We further report that, there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
guidelines.
We further report that, following were the specific 
events / actions taken by the Company having a major 
bearing on the company’s affairs in pursuance of the 
above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, 
standards, etc. referred to above:
1.	
The Company and Suzlon Global Services Limited 
(‘SGSL’), 
have 
implemented 
the 
Scheme 
of 
Arrangement involving transfer and vesting of 
Project Execution Business and Power Evacuation 
Business of the Company into SGSL. Certified copy 
of the Order in connection with the Scheme of 
Arrangement issued by the NCLT was filed with the 
Registrar of Companies on 29th September, 2022.
2.	
Suzlon Energy Limited (“SEL”) and its certain 
specified 
subsidiaries 
(hereinafter 
collectively 
referred to as “Suzlon The Group” or the “STG”) had 
submitted a proposal to the then Existing Lenders 
for 
refinancing 
the 
outstanding 
restructured 
facilities (the “Refinancing Proposal”) on the basis 
of sanction letters from REC Limited and Indian 
Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited 
(the “New Lenders”). On 24th May, 2022, the 
Refinancing Proposal was consummated. Pursuant 
to the same, the Restructured Facilities of the 
STG have been refinanced and the outstanding 
obligations of the STG under the Restructured 
Facilities stand discharged.
We further report that, the Company has passed 
following special resolution in Extra-Ordinary General 
Meeting held on 23rd June, 2022:
•	
To amend the Articles of Association of the 
Company.
And following Special Resolution in Annual General 
Meeting held on 18th November, 2022:
•	
To appoint Mr. Balrajsinh A.Parmar (DIN: 00002276) 
as the Wholetime Director of the Company.

CS Dhwani Rana

 Partner

Chirag Shah & Associates

 FCS No. 12523 
 
 C P No.: 21737
 
Peer Review Cer. No.: 704/2020
Place: Ahmedabad
Date: 30/05/2023
UDIN: F012523E000456835
This report is to be read with our letter of even date 
which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral 
part of this report.
Annual Report 2022-23
100
TO,
THE MEMBERS,
SUZLON GUJARAT WIND PARK LIMITED
CIN: U40108GJ2004PLC044409
“Suzlon”, 5, Shrimali Society,
Near Shri Krishna Complex, Navrangpura,
Ahmedabad-380009.
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read 
along with this letter.
Management’s Responsibility
It is the responsibility of the management of the Company 
to maintain secretarial records, devise proper systems to 
ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable 
laws and regulations and to ensure that the systems are 
adequate and operate effectively.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
secretarial records, standards and procedures followed 
by the Company with respect to secretarial compliances.
We believe that audit evidence and information obtained 
from the Company’s management is adequate and 
appropriate for us to provide a basis for our opinion.
Wherever required, we have obtained the management 
representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
Disclaimer
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as 
to the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy 
or effectiveness with which the management has 
conducted the affairs of the Company.
 	
CS Dhwani Rana

 Partner
Chirag Shah & Associates
 FCS No. 12523 
 
 C P No.: 21737
 
Peer Review Cer. No.: 704/2020
Place: Ahmedabad
Date: 30/05/2023
UDIN: F012523E000456835
‘Annexure A’
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
101
To, 
THE MEMBERS, 
SUZLON GLOBAL SERVICES LIMITED
CIN: U27109GJ2004PLC044170
“Suzlon”, 5, Shrimali Society, Nr Shri Krishna Complex,
Navrangpura, Ahmedabad-380009
Gujarat.
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the 
adherence to good corporate practices by SUZLON 
GLOBAL SERVICES LIMITED (hereinafter called the 
Company). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner 
that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating 
the corporate conducts / statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also the 
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 
the Company has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended on 31st March, 2023, generally 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board-processes 
and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 
2023, according to the provisions of:
i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules 
made thereunder;
ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;- (Not 
applicable for the period under review);
iii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed there under;
iv)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and 
the rules and regulations made thereunder to the 
extent of External Commercial Borrowings;(Foreign 
Direct Investment Guidelines and Overseas Direct 
Investment Regulations are not applicable to the 
Company during the audit period);- (Not applicable 
for the period under review).
v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’): -
(a)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;-(Not applicable 
for the period under review).
(b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015;(Not applicable for the period under 
review).
(c)	 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018; Not applicable for the 
period under review.
(d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations 2021; (Not applicable for 
the period under review).
(e)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible 
Securities) Regulations 2021: (Not applicable 
for the period under review);
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the 
Companies Act and dealing with client;
(g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations 2021: 
(Not applicable for the period under review);
(h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018: 
(Not applicable for the period under review);
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India 
(Depositories 
and 
Participants) 
Regulations, 2018.
vi)	
Other laws as reported by management specifically 
applicable to the Company:
a)	
The Electricity Act,2003
b)	
The Gujarat Electricity Duty Act,1958
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2023
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
Annual Report 2022-23
102
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India with respect to 
Board and General Meeting, Directors Report 
(SS-1 and SS-2);
(ii)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015; (Not applicable for the period 
under review)
We further report that the compliance by the Company 
of applicable financial laws like Direct and Indirect Tax 
Laws hasn’t been reviewed in this audit since the same 
has been subject to review by statutory financial audits 
and other designated professionals.
During the period under review and as per the 
explanations and clarifications given to us and the 
representations made by the Management, the Company 
has generally complied with the provisions of the Act, 
Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, etc. mentioned above.
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly 
constituted, with proper balance of Executive Directors, 
Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors. The 
changes in the constitution / composition of the Board of 
directors that took place during the period under review 
were carried out in compliance with the provisions 
of the Act.
There is a system for sending the notice to all directors 
to schedule the Board Meetings, the agenda and 
detailed notes on agenda were sent at least seven days 
in advance and a system exists for seeking and obtaining 
further information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at 
the meeting.
All the decisions in the Board Meeting were carried 
through by majority decision while there were no 
dissenting member’s views and hence not captured and 
recorded as part of the minutes.
We further report that as per the explanations given to 
us and the representations made by the Management 
and relied upon by us there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period there have 
been certain major events or action by the Company 
which may have a major bearing on the companies affairs 
in pursuance of above related laws, rules, guidelines, 
standards, etc. as described hereunder:-
1.	
The Company and Suzlon Power Infrastructure 
Limited (‘SPIL’) and Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park 
Limited (‘SGWPL’), have implemented (i) a Scheme 
of Amalgamation involving merger by absorption 
(‘Scheme 1’) of SPIL with the Company and (ii) the 
Scheme of Arrangement involving transfer and 
vesting of Project Execution Business (‘Demerged 
Undertaking I’) and Power Evacuation Business 
(‘Demerged Undertaking II’) (‘Scheme 2’) of SGWPL 
into the Company. Certified copy of the Orders in 
connection with amalgamation and arrangement 
of SPIL and SGWPL issued by the respective NCLT 
were filed with the Registrar of Companies on 29th 
September, 2022.
2.	
Pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation becoming 
effective, the Company has on 20th October, 2022 
allotted 10,000 fully paid-up 0.1% Redeemable Non-
Cumulative Preference Shares of Rs. 100/- each 
aggregating to RS. 10,00,000/- in dematerialised 
form to the shareholders of the Transferee Company 
i.e. Suzlon Energy Limited.
3.	
Suzlon 
Energy 
Limited 
(“SEL”), 
the 
holding 
company of the Company and its certain specified 
subsidiaries including the Company (hereinafter 
collectively referred to as “Suzlon The Group” or 
the “STG”) had submitted a proposal to the then 
Existing Lenders for refinancing the outstanding 
restructured facilities (the “Refinancing Proposal”) 
on the basis of sanction letters from REC Limited 
and 
Indian 
Renewable 
Energy 
Development 
Agency Limited (the “New Lenders”). Pursuant to 
the Refinancing Proposal, 4,45,301 Compulsorily 
Convertible Preference Shares having a face 
value of r 1,00,000/- of the Company allotted on 
27th June, 2020 to the lenders have been converted 
into 4,454 fully paid-up equity shares of the Company 
at a face value of Rs. 10/- each at an issue price of 
r 10/- per share, aggregating to r 44,540/- on 
24th May, 2022.
4.	
On 23rd June, 2022, the shareholders at the Extra 
Ordinary General Meeting of the Company have 
passed the resolution to amend the Articles of 
Association of the company to adopt new set of 
regulations of the Articles of Association
For Shailesh Indapurkar & Associates
Company Secretaries
CS Shailesh Indapurkar
Proprietor
ACS 17306
C. P. No: 5701
Place: Pune
Date : 30.05.2023
UDIN: A017306E000424119
This report is to be read with our letter of event date 
which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral 
part of this report.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
103
TO, 
THE MEMBERS, 
SUZLON GLOBAL SERVICES LIMITED
CIN: U27109GJ2004PLC044170
Suzlon 5 Shrimali Society Nr Shri Krishna 
Complex Navrangpura Ahmadabad GJ380009
Our report of event date is to be read along with this 
letter.
1.	
Maintenance 
of 
secretarial 
record 
is 
the 
responsibility of the management of the company. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes 
as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the 
secretarial records. The verification was done on 
test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in secretarial records. We believe that the processes 
and practices, we followed provide a reasonable 
basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and 
appropriateness of financial records and Books of 
Accounts of the company.
‘Annexure A’
4.	
Wherever 
required, 
we 
have 
obtained 
the 
Management representation about the Compliance 
of laws, rules and regulations and happening of 
events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate 
and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, 
Standards is the responsibility of management. 
Our examination was limited to the verification of 
procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the company nor 
of the efficacy or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of 
the company.
For Shailesh Indapurkar & Associates
Company Secretaries
CS Shailesh Indapurkar
Proprietor
ACS 17306
C. P. No: 5701
Place: Pune
Date: 30.05.2023
Annual Report 2022-23
104
1.	
Economic Overview
1.1.	 Global economic overview
	
The global recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and 
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is slowing amid widening 
divergences among economic sectors and regions. 
Despite these headwinds, global economic activity 
was resilient in the first quarter of CY23, with that 
resilience driven mainly by the services sector. Supply 
chains have largely recovered, and shipping costs and 
suppliers’ delivery times are back to pre-pandemic 
levels. But forces that hindered growth in CY22 still 
persist. At the same time, this recovery comes with 
challenges, navigating a complex phase of transition.
	
As per International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) report 
2023, Global growth is projected to fall from an 
estimated 3.5% in CY22 to 3.0% in both CY23 and 
CY24. The rise in central bank policy rates to fight 
inflation continues to weigh on economic activity. 
Global headline inflation is expected to fall from 8.7% 
in CY22 to 6.8% in CY23 and 5.2% in CY24 on the 
back of lower commodity prices. Underlying (core) 
inflation is projected to decline more gradually. 
	
On the contrary, for emerging market and 
developing economies, growth is projected to be 
broadly stable at 4.0% in CY23 and 4.1% in CY24, 
with modest revisions of 0.1% point for CY23 and 
–0.1% point for CY24. This is attributed to the 
remarkable resilience in its labor markets, driven by 
strong job creation and stability. Robust household 
consumption and increased private capitalisation 
also played significant roles in supporting economic 
growth in this market.
1.2.	 Indian economic overview
	
Amidst the backdrop of the pandemic and prevailing 
global economic uncertainties, India stands out 
in a bright spot. India has been at the forefront of 
global economic expansion thereby contributing a 
significant role in driving global growth. The central 
government’s capital expenditure (capex) has been 
a key driver of India’s economic growth in FY23, 
with a significant increase of 63.4% in the first 
eight months of FY23. This growth has also helped 
stimulate private sector capex.  
	
Furthermore, with a record-high GDP of $ 3.75 Trillion-
mark in CY23, India became the fifth largest economy 
in the world beating the UK. Anchoring this economic 
growth momentum, India has witnessed a significant 
boost in its reputation through a 14% surge in overall 
exports during CY23, reaching a total value of $ 
775.87 Billion, a substantial increase of approximately 
$ 100 Billion compared to the previous year.
2.	
Outlook
	
The 
global 
environment 
is 
going 
through 
considerable changes. Geopolitical factors such 
as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, rising 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
inflation and volatile commodity prices have caused 
slowing down of global growth and created stress 
in the overall economic environment. As per IMF, 
Global growth is projected to fall from an estimated 
3.5% in CY22 to 3.0% in both CY23 and CY24. 
	
Advanced 
economies 
continue 
to 
drive 
the 
decline in growth from CY22 to CY23, with weaker 
manufacturing, as well as idiosyncratic factors, 
offsetting stronger services activity. On the contrary, 
in emerging market and developing economies, the 
growth outlook is broadly stable for CY23 and CY24, 
although with notable shifts across regions.
	
In most economies, the priority remains achieving 
sustained disinflation while ensuring financial stability.
Global
Economy
Advanced
Economy
Emerging Market & 
Developing Economy
World Economic Outlook Update July 2023
Growth Projections (% change) 
6.3
5.4
6.8
3.5
2.7
4.0
4.0
4.1
3.0
1.5
3.0
1.4
CY21
CY21
CY21
CY22e
CY22e
CY22e
CY23p
CY23p
CY23p
CY24p
CY24p
CY24p
	
e = estimated 
	
p = projected
	
Source IMF 2023
	
While the soaring inflationary pressures stay as a 
challenge to the global economic growth, India 
is reflecting a strong recovery. This is fuelled 
by improved meticulous capital allocation, fiscal 
support and a rebound in private consumption and 
investment. India’s is expected to remain stable with 
an estimated range of 6-6.3%, striving to revive 
from the pandemic-induced recession.
	
Looking ahead the Indian economic landscape, if 
inflation declines in CY24 and the real cost of credit 
remains stable, it is projected that credit growth 
will also continue to be robust in CY24. Moreover, 
in line with IMF, the inflation rate is predicted to be 
reduced from 6.8 in CY23 to 5% in CY24. (Source: 
The Economic Times - January 31, 2023)
3.	
Industry overview of the renewable energy 
sector
3.1.	 Global renewable energy sector overview
	
Looking into the global energy sector, in FY23, 
the world is currently suffering from an energy 
crisis as one of the impacts of the Russia-Ukraine 
conflicts and geopolitical tensions. The exposure of 
industries and consumers to high-price situations 
has contributed to the return of inflation as a major 
global challenge.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
105
	
The CY22 also depicts the global investment in the 
low-carbon energy transition to reach a remarkable 
milestone, totalling $ 1.1 Trillion, a record-breaking 
figure, as highlighted in a report by BloombergNEF 
(BNEF). The energy crisis, coupled with policy 
actions, increased the rapid deployment of clean 
energy technologies, driving substantial investment 
in the transition towards a more sustainable and 
low-carbon future. Despite reaching a record high, 
the global investment in the low-carbon energy 
transition falls short of what is necessary to achieve 
the net zero target. According to BNEF’s Net Zero 
Scenario, a staggering $ 194 Trillion in investments 
will be required by CY50 to effectively transition to 
a sustainable energy system.
	
On the other hand, the effects of climate change 
are becoming more prominent as countries delay 
taking adequate steps to achieve the emission 
trajectory as outlined in the Paris Agreement. 
However, governments worldwide have taken some 
initiatives towards energy transition and reducing 
their dependency on fossil fuels. They have set new 
ambitious targets for renewable energy transition and 
the gradual phase-out of fossil-based technologies 
in transportation, generation and industry.
	
Electricity generation is expected to triple from CY20 
to CY50, with 91% of the generation expected to 
come from renewable sources compared to 28% in 
CY20. Coal and oil-based power generation plants 
will witness a decline over the decade before being 
completely phased out. By CY50, out of the total 
electricity generation, 5% will be catered by fossil fuel, 
4% by nuclear energy and the rest from renewable 
energy sources. (Source: GWEC 2023 report)
	
Regarding 
the 
global 
contribution 
to 
energy 
generation, renewable energy is expected to 
contribute 98% of the 2,518 TWh of electricity 
generation to be added between CY22 and CY25. 
Wind energy is expected to achieve a milestone of 1 
TW of installed capacity by the middle of the current 
year and another 1 TW will be added by CY30. A total 
of 630 GW of wind energy is expected to be added 
globally between CY23 and CY27, out of which, 130 
GW will be offshore. (Source: GWEC 2023 report)
3.2. India’s Renewable energy sector overview
	
India’s renewable energy sector has achieved 
remarkable global rankings, holding the fourth 
position in renewable energy capacity and wind 
power, and the fifth position in solar power capacity 
as per India Brand Equity Foundation (IBEF). With a 
compound annual growth rate of 15.92% between 
FY16-22, the sector is poised to double its capacity 
additions by 2026. Demonstrating its commitment, 
the government has allocated ₹ 19,500 Crore in the 
Union Budget 2022-23 to bolster the manufacturing 
of high-efficiency solar modules through a 
Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for 280 
GW solar capacity addition by 2030.
	
India’s 
installed 
renewable 
energy 
capacity, 
including hydro, stands at 165.94 GW, accounting 
for 40.6% of the overall installed power capacity as 
of October 2022. The country has set a robust target 
of achieving 500 GW of installed renewable energy 
capacity by 2030, with solar energy expected to 
contribute over 60% towards this objective.
	
Impressive progress is already evident, as non-hydro 
renewable energy capacity additions reached 4.2 GW 
in the first three months of FY23, surpassing the 2.6 
GW added during the same period in FY22. This robust 
expansion aligns with the increasing renewable energy 
generation, exemplified by non-hydro renewable 
sources producing higher units year on year.
	
Northern India, with its immense potential capacity 
of 363 GW and focused policies, is poised to 
become the country’s renewable energy hub. India’s 
steadfast progress in the renewable energy sector 
underlines its commitment to a sustainable future 
and establishes its pivotal role in the global clean 
energy transition. (Source: CII)
4.	
Wind Energy Outlook
4.1.	 Global Wind Energy Outlook
	
In CY22, 77.6 GW of new wind power capacity was 
added worldwide, bringing the total wind capacity 
to 906 GW globally. Although new installations 
were 16 GW lower than the last year, CY22 marked 
the third-highest year ever in terms of wind 
installation in the history of wind power.
2001
6.5
6.4
2002
7.3
7.1
2003
8.1
7.9
2004
8.2
8.1
2005
11.5
11.4
2006
14.7
14.6
2007
20.3
20
2008
26.9
26.5
2009
38.5
37.9
2010
39.1
38.2
2011
40.6
39.8
2012
45
43.9
2013
36
34.5
2014
51.7
50.2
2015
63.8
60.4
2016
54.9
52.7
2017
53.5
49
2018
50.7
46.3
2019
60.8
54.6
2020
95.3
88.4
2021
93.6
72.5
2022
77.6
68.8
Annual New Installation (GW)
Global Wind Installation (GW)
Onshore
Offshore
Total
	
Figure 1 – Historic Development of Global New Installations (Onshore and Offshore)
	
Source – GWEC: Global Wind Report 2023
Annual Report 2022-23
106
	
Global Market Status
	
Out of the total new wind installations of 77.6 GW in CY22, new onshore capacity stood at 68.8 GW, bringing the 
cumulative global onshore capacity to 842 GW. Although new onshore wind installations witnessed a dip of 5% YoY 
in CY22, the year still marked the third-highest capacity addition so far. On the offshore front, the total installed 
offshore wind capacity reached the level of 64 GW in CY22 as compared to 56 GW in CY21.
	
The top five markets in terms of new installations in CY22 were China, USA, Brazil, Germany and Sweden. Together, 
they accounted for 71% of new onshore installations. Region-wise, APAC & Europe were the largest contributors to 
new installations in CY22.
	
In terms of cumulative installed wind capacity in the world today, the top five contributors are China, USA, Germany, 
India and Spain. These countries together account for more than 72% of the world’s total installed wind power.
North 
America
12%
LATAM
7%
Europe
25%
Africa and Middle East
1%
APAC
56%
New Wind Capacity CY22 (By Region)
Total 77.6 GW
China  
49%
Others 
28%
Sweden 
3%
Germany 
4%
Brazil 
5%
USA 
11%
New Installed Wind Capacity CY22, Top 5 
Market share (%), Total 77.6 GW 
	
Figure 2 – New Wind Power Capacity (By Region and by Market Share)
	
Source – GWEC: Global Wind Report 2023
CY22(Actual)
Onshore
Offshore
Total
Annual New Installation (GW)
200
150
100
50
0
78
CY23e
115
CY24e
125
CY25e
135
CY26e
150
CY27e
157
69
9
97
18
18
106
Global Wind Outlook For Next 5 Years (GW)
109
26
117
122
36
32
	
Figure 3– Global Wind Installations Outlook (Forecast): CY22-27e
	
Source – GWEC: Global Wind Report 2023
	
Under current policies across different countries, it is expected that new wind installation will exceed 100 GW in 
CY23 with a total of 680 GW of new addition in the next five years. The new installation rate in next five years is 
expected to grow with a CAGR of 15%, with an average new capacity addition of more than 136 GW per year until 
2027. (Source: GWEC report)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
107
	
India’s performance
	
Despite the global uncertainties triggered by the 
Russia-Ukraine war, the COVID-19 pandemic and 
recessionary pressures, India’s commitment towards 
renewable energy remains on priority. In CY22, India 
awarded 2.25 GW of standalone wind capacity and 
2.45 GW of hybrid wind capacity through different 
auctions. India commissioned 1.8 GW of onshore wind 
capacity in CY22 as compared to 1.4 GW in CY21 with 
an increase of 28.5% as compared to last year.
	
Various contributing factors such as an expected 
increase in electricity demand in the coming years, 
the aspiration to become a $ 5 Trillion economy 
by 2025, growth in the manufacturing sector and 
a commitment to achieve net-zero emissions by 
2070, are expected to provide a big boost to the 
renewable energy sector in India. India targets to 
achieve a cumulative wind capacity of 140 GW by 
2030. (Source: GWEC report)
Coal  
49%
Solar 
16%
Bio- Power
 3%
Wind
 10%
Small 
Hydro
 1%
Nuclear
 2%
Hydro  
(Renewable) 
 11%
Lignite
 2%
Gas
 6%
Installed Capacity as on 31.03.2023(Total 416 GW)
 
	
Figure 4– Installed capacity in India
	
Source – CEA: All India Installed Capacity, March 31, 2023
	
With its large population, India is one of the leading 
energy consumers in the world. Coal energy has 
been a major source of energy in the country. 
However, by the end of FY23, the contribution of 
coal to the total installed capacity mix declined to 
49%, compared to 51% in FY22. Solar installation has 
become the second major contributor with 16% of 
total capacity, followed by hydropower at 11% and 
wind power at 10%. The Renewable Energy Sources 
(RES) that include small hydro projects, biomass 
power, urban & industrial waste power, solar energy 
and wind energy, account for 30% of the total 
installed capacity, up from 28% in the previous year.
	
Many steps have been taken by the Indian government 
to give a boost to the renewable sector in India. Indian 
government has laid down the Electricity (Promoting 
Renewable Energy through Green Energy open 
Access) Rules, 2022 to support the uptake of green 
power in the country. Another key step in this direction 
has been the Draft National Repowering Policy 
for Wind Power Projects, 2022, which aims to tap 
opportunities for repowering existing wind projects. 
In 2022, the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy 
(MNRE) also published a strategy document outlining 
an offshore wind tender trajectory of 37 GW by 2030, 
opening the door for offshore wind installations in the 
country. (Source: GWEC report)
4.2.	Indian Wind Energy Outlook
	
According to the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), 
India’s ex-bus electricity demand is expected 
to grow by 75% by 2031-32 and 170% by 2041-
42 compared to 2021-22. To meet this growing 
demand, wind power can play a leading role. It is 
expected that India’s new onshore wind market will 
continue to recover, with new additions peaking in 
2025-26 with the complete expiry of the interstate 
transmission charge (ISTS) waiver in June 2025. 
India is likely to add 21 GW of onshore wind capacity 
between 2023 and 2027.
	
As of March 31, 2023, India’s total installed wind 
capacity stands at 42,633.13 MW, up by 5.6% from 
the previous year.
FY2018
34,046
FY2019
Cumulative Installed Capacity (MW)
35,625
FY2020
37,693
FY2021
39,247
FY2022
40,357
FY2023
42,633
	
Figure 5 – Total Installed Wind capacity in India
	
Source – MNRE: Installed Capacity Report, FY18 - FY23
Annual Report 2022-23
108
Tamil Nadu
12,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0
10,017
9,979
5,295
5,193
5,013
4,097
2,844
324
867
164
770
151
Gujarat
Karnataka
Total Operational Wind Capacity (MW) - March 31,2023
State-Wise Operational Wind Capacity (MW)
New Installations in FY23 (MW)
Rajasthan
Maharashtra
Andhra 
Pradesh
Madhya 
Pradesh
	
Figure 6 – State-wise Installed Wind capacity in India
	
Source – IWTMA, Indian wind power, March 2023 (Figures rounded to nearest value)
	
In FY23, the highest new wind capacity was added 
in Rajasthan (866.6 MW), followed by Gujarat 
(769.7 
MW), 
Madhya 
Pradesh 
(324.4 
MW), 
Karnataka (164.05 MW) and Tamil Nadu (150.8 MW). 
Currently, Tamil Nadu has the highest total installed 
wind capacity of 10.01 GW, closely followed by 
Gujarat (9.97 GW), Karnataka (5.29 GW), Rajasthan 
(5.19 GW), Maharashtra (5.01 GW), Andhra Pradesh 
(4.09 GW) and Madhya Pradesh (2.84 GW).
	
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) 
has outlined a wind-specific renewable purchase 
obligation (RPO) plan for 2030 with a target of 8 GW 
onshore wind tender every year between 2023 and 
2030. This plan has been outlined with the objective 
to harness the high wind energy potential in states 
including Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, 
Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil 
Nadu and Telangana. As per MNRE letter dated 
March 31, 2023, India will invite Renewable Energy 
Project bids for 50 GW per annuam which includes 
10 GW of Wind Energy Projects during the period 
from FY24 to FY28.
	
The MNRE, in collaboration with the Danish Energy 
Agency, has published a conceptual plan for 15 
offshore wind projects, paving the way for offshore 
wind development. The increase in commodity 
prices and the impact of a shrinking supply chain 
in Europe present a significant opportunity for India 
in the wind energy supply chain, further boosting 
the wind energy sector in India. All these factors are 
expected to favour the wind energy sector in India.
5.	
Business Overview
5.1.	 Suzlon’s Business Overview
	
Suzlon Energy Limited is a global renewable energy 
solutions provider. It specialises in the design, 
development, 
manufacturing, 
installation 
and 
maintenance of wind turbines and related renewable 
energy components. Since the Company’s inception 
in 1995, it has emerged as one of the leading wind 
power companies in the world.
	
In addition to its expertise in wind energy, Suzlon has 
successfully expanded its competencies to include 
solar power. The company is actively pursuing 
opportunities in Wind-Solar hybrid solutions, 
combining the strengths of both renewable 
energy sources.
	
Suzlon has an extensive global footprint across 
17 countries, strategically positioning itself to serve 
global markets with over total installed wind turbines 
of more than 12,640 numbers crossing over 20 
GW milestone as on 5th June 2023. The Company’s 
manufacturing prowess is exemplified by its 14 state-
of-the-art manufacturing units in India.
	
Within 
India, 
Suzlon 
has 
made 
significant 
contributions to the wind energy sector, operating 
more than 111 wind farms with an impressive 
installed capacity of over 13,880 MW. Suzlon’s 
involvement spans both onshore and offshore 
projects, demonstrating its role in driving the 
transition to clean energy.
	
Through its unwavering commitment to renewable 
energy 
infrastructure 
development, 
Suzlon 
continues to play a pivotal role in advancing the 
clean energy agenda. With a strong focus on quality, 
innovation and sustainability, Suzlon Energy Limited 
remains a key player in the global renewable energy 
landscape.
5.2.	 Products and Technology
	
Increased market competition, lower tariffs and the 
availability of cheaper sources of power like solar 
energy have made it necessary for wind turbine 
manufacturers to focus and invest more on research 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
109
and development and product innovation. Suzlon, 
with its strong knowledge base and track record of 
27 years, has prioritised and focused on enhancing 
its product portfolio. Over the years, Suzlon has 
made consistent efforts to build a strong customer 
base across the globe and established excellent 
relationships with them.
	
Suzlon’s robust technology has enabled us not only 
to achieve the designed life but also to increase 
the turbine life with refurbishment and necessary 
safety assessments. The current product portfolio 
includes,
	
•	
S120-140 (6-7% higher energy yield over S111)
	
•	
S133-140, 160 (27-33% higher energy yield 
over S120)
	
•	
S144-140, 160 (11-12% higher energy yield 
over S133)
	
In FY23, Suzlon commissioned the first proto of its 
new S144 model. These consistent developments 
are a reflection of the Group’s focus towards 
meeting the market demand through new product 
innovation, investing in R&D and ensuring world-
class technology and products for the customers.
6. 
Key Initiatives and priorities
	
In FY23, Suzlon witnessed growth in wind 
installations compared to FY22. In FY24, the 
Company’s major focus will be to regain market 
leadership in the Indian wind industry. The Company 
also focuses on expanding its wings in hybrid (wind 
and solar) space. The key priorities and initiatives to 
achieve these goals are as follows:
•	
To provide best-in-class service throughout 
the lifecycle of wind energy projects
•	
To regain the market leadership with an 
improved market share and building up of 
order book
•	
To further strengthen the Balance Sheet 
position
•	
To reduce fund based debt and arrange 
sufficient non-fund based working capital limit
•	
To reduce Levelised Cost of Energy (LCOE) 
through better technology and products more 
specific to the market conditions
•	
To optimize cost through value engineering 
and improved efficiencies across the value 
chain
•	
To 
continuously 
surpass 
the 
market 
benchmarks and achieve the best machine 
availability
•	
To help improve efficiencies and better yields 
for our customers
7.	
Business risks and mitigation measures
	
Suzlon has an active risk-mitigating strategy that 
allows for a comprehensive view of the internal and 
external environment, enabling proactive measures 
to address challenges to the best extent possible. 
The key elements of the program are summarised 
below:
A. 	 Operational risks
•	
Technology risk: Price pressure has driven 
technology innovation, which has paved the 
way for wind turbine manufacturers to develop 
innovative 
and 
cost-effective 
solutions. 
Suzlon prioritises research & development 
and aims to develop innovative technology 
that would allow it to operate successfully in 
the Indian market. With the help of in-house 
technology and design capabilities, Suzlon 
has developed a comprehensive portfolio of 
products with multi-MW turbines. The Group 
works 
consistently 
towards 
performance 
improvement, 
cost 
reduction 
across 
components and bringing efficiency in the 
overall project lifecycle.
•	
Supply chain risk: Wind turbine manufacturing 
requires meticulous and time-bound planning 
of the supply chain, including resource 
procurement. 
Critical 
components 
like 
gearboxes, bearings, converters and blades 
have long ramp-up durations, limiting agility. 
The Group has worked to create alternative 
sources through the expansion of the vendor 
base, localisation and standardisation of 
certain components to ensure the timely 
availability of the critical components and 
keep the costs of procurement under control. 
Most of components’ costs are linked to 
the cost of aligned commodities like steel, 
copper, infusion system, glass fabric etc., and 
to such extent, the Group carries the risk of 
fluctuations in commodity rates. The global 
execution of 77.6 GW wind projects in CY22 
stands as the third-highest wind installation. 
Geo-political disturbances continued to add 
to the supply chain disruptions that led to 
hindrances in the timely component availability 
thereby affecting the cost and schedule. 
Suzlon takes consistent efforts to reduce 
the existing pressure on the supply chain by 
developing alternative vendors, securing long-
term commitments, and exploring options for 
limited access to non-fund-based (NFB) limits.
•	
Project execution risk: In India, wind industry 
in the recent past had witnessed struggle in 
project execution due to delay in arranging land 
and statutory approval resulting into cost and 
time overruns. Other risks associated with the 
project life cycle include extreme climatic and 
Annual Report 2022-23
110
environmental conditions, timely availability 
of grid capacity for evacuation, availability of 
suitable land resources, timely availability of 
crane for installations and timely execution 
of project activities by subcontractors etc. 
The Group undertakes regular monitoring of 
project progress considering the agreed plan 
to ensure timely completion of the project.
•	
Business volume risk: The last few years saw 
wind tariffs going as low as ₹ 2.43 per unit but 
have now moved upward in the last auctions. 
SECI Tranche XIV ISTS wind auction concluded 
at a tariff of ₹ 3.18 for 190 MW and ₹ 3.24 for 
500 MW. The Group is regularly monitoring the 
progress and working on building a good order 
book in advance and working with additional 
segment of customers under the Commercial 
and Industrial sector (C&I Segment).
B.	
Financial risks
•	
Availability of adequate working capital: 
The Wind Turbine Generator (WTG) business 
is working capital intensive and thus sizeable 
non-fund based working capital limit is required 
for execution of WTG orders. Currently, the 
Company operates with a limited availability 
of working capital, which restricts progressive 
revenue growth. Until the Company is able to 
arrange adequate amount of working capital 
limit on permanent basis, the Company may 
face risk of execution delays or losing orders.
•	
Delay 
in 
funding 
for 
planned 
capital 
expenditure: The Company has launched a 
new WTG model, which will require certain 
capital expenditure (mainly towards blade 
moulds) on timely basis. Large part of the 
future orders is expected to be for this new 
WTG model. Until the Company is able to fund 
the planned capital expenditure, the Company 
may face risk of suboptimal capacity utilisation.
•	
Poor 
financial 
position 
of 
distribution 
companies: Electricity distribution companies 
in several States of India are still reeling under 
financial distress. While the Company does 
not have any direct commercial relationship 
with these distribution companies, indirectly 
it could still have material adverse effect on 
our business volume, results of operations 
and future cash flow. Any such difficulties 
or instability of such distribution companies 
in general could create an adverse market 
perception and thus possibly could lead to 
adverse impact on our business.
•	
High level of inflation in India: Inflation rates 
in India have remained volatile in recent years 
and such volatility may continue further. 
India has experienced high level of inflation 
compared to developed countries in the 
recent past. This could cause further rise in 
the cost of raw material, other direct costs 
and overheads leading to decline in profits. 
High fluctuations in inflation rates may make 
it more difficult for us to accurately estimate 
or control our costs. The Company may not 
be able to pass any such resultant increase 
in cost to our customers either entirely or 
partly. This may adversely affect our business 
and financial condition. Rising inflation could 
also lead to corrective measures resulting to 
interest rate hike, which may adversely impact 
the Company due to high financial exposure.
8.	
Internal 
control 
systems 
and 
their 
adequacy
	
Management 
Assurance 
team, 
consisting 
of 
in-house 
team 
members 
and 
experienced 
co-sourced partners, undertakes independent 
reviews 
of 
risks, 
controls, 
operations 
and 
procedures, identifying control and process gaps 
and recommending business solutions for risk 
mitigation. The Group runs in-house Risk and 
Misconduct Management Unit which supports 
management to assess, evaluate, strengthen and 
institutionalise value system from the standpoint 
of ethical business practices. Complaints received 
under whistle-blower policy are evaluated on a 
regular basis. The Audit Committee of the Board 
periodically reviews the Company’s management 
audit reports, audit plans and recommendations of 
the auditors and managements’ responses to those 
recommendations. The Audit Committee met four 
times during the year.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
111
In FY 23, Suzlon Foundation (SF), a section 8 company 
mandated to lead the corporate social responsibility 
programs of Suzlon Group, continued to catalyze the 
social development ecosystem through its unique 
impact model ‘Suz-Tain’. The Foundation, with its 
philosophy of creating ‘Sustainable Development for 
Sustainable Economy,’ ensures that Suzlon Group 
integrates sustainability into its core business strategy. 
The Foundation’s ensures that the four main CSR goals 
evolved from Suzlon’s in-depth understanding of both, 
the business and the social ecosystem.
Having
inimal
m
mpact n
i
o
nvironment
e
CommitƟng
urselves o
o
t
thical usiness
e
b
racƟces hat re
p
t
a
takeholders
s
Empowering
mployees o
e
t
e esponsible
b r
ivil ociety
c
s
embers
m
Enabling ocal
l
ommuniƟes o
c
t
evelop heir
d
t
otenƟal
p
CSR Goals
fair to all the 
Powering a greener tomorrow for Suzlon, therefore 
involves responsible management of its financial, natural, 
social, human, and physical capitals. Suzlon focuses 
on creating sustainable value by benefiting the planet 
and society while enhancing its market performance. 
This approach of conducting responsible business 
has resulted in cost saving, improved stakeholder 
relationships, and better risk management. Through its 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainability 
strategy, Suzlon is committed to achieving the UN- 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), UN Global 
Compact Principles, and National Voluntary Guidelines 
(NVGs) since 2008. Suzlon with its measurable, impactful 
and self-sustaining CSR activities, aims at supporting 
rural and underprivileged communities to become self-
reliant. The Suz-Tain CSR model evolved from a provider-
beneficiary to a partnership approach. It considers all the 
key stakeholders to plan, implement, monitor and support 
village level sustainable development interventions. This 
model focuses on tracking, monitoring, measuring and 
evaluating Suzlon CSR Programs. Following are the goals:
•	
Long term goal - To empower village institutions 
and bring collectivism in the villages.
•	
Mid-term goal – This involves the ‘Zero programs’ 
specifically designed to address the needs of 
disadvantaged communities like senior citizens, 
under five children, specially-abled and vulnerable 
local environment.
•	
Short term goal - Integrated development activities 
for community that address the immediate village 
requirements.
ENGAGE
EMPOWER
SUSTAIN
Suzlon CSR ensures that need based issues are 
identified after due annual and ongoing consultation 
with stakeholders like the villagers, key persons and 
government departments. A community satisfaction 
survey helps to receive feedback from the community 
members. A community grievance redressal mechanism 
is in place to systematically address the community 
grievances.
During FY 23, Suzlon conducted over 2,573 impactful CSR 
activities and touched lives in 609 villages reaching over 
30,00,000 villagers and 10,00,000 households. The CSR 
activities were focused on six key areas - Environment, 
Empowerment, 
Health, 
Livelihood, 
Education 
and 
Civic Amenities. These activities were undertaken in 
consultation with communities and in collaboration with 
over 60 institutions such as Government, private agencies 
and corporate foundations. Additionally, Suzlon’s CSR 
programs leveraged ₹ 1.10 Crore of co-funding from other 
stakeholders like employees, customers and community 
members.
Key Achievements:
1.	
Environment:
	
26569 tree saplings of 73 different local 
species were planted. The fruit, shade giving 
trees, 
horticulture 
and 
agroforestry 
plants 
enrich the biodiversity, enhance health and 
improve livelihoods. 72 % of plants survived 
due to committed caretakers and well-defined 
monitoring plans. Awareness on tree plantation 
was conducted for over 1000 students to 
inculcate an environment protection attitude. 
1,10,386 cubic meters of water was conserved 
mainly in the drought prone areas through farm 
pond, bore well recharge, pond desiltation, rain 
water harvesting and tree plantation initiatives 
Corporate Social Responsibility
Annual Report 2022-23
112
benefitting 6,249 villagers due to increase 
in water availability in 9 villages. Suz-HOOK, 
developed to bring behavioural change in the rural 
households under the ‘Zero Garbage’ programme, 
resulted in the collection and recycling of 4,540 
Kgs of plastic waste in 115 villages and 46 locations 
surrounding Suzlon premises. Under ‘Zero Sparrow 
Deaths’ programme Suzlon installed 6,807 bird 
conservation units like nests, water troughs and 
bird feeders, benefiting 19,572 birds of 24 species. 
2,785 stakeholders were involved in 109 activities 
like 
tree 
plantation, 
plastic 
collection, 
bird 
conservation, quiz, pledge and awareness sessions 
as part of the World Environment Day celebrations. 
29,248 Kgs of recyclable waste materials were 
converted into 5,754 innovative product items like 
wash basin, bird nest, Suz-Hook, pen holder, sign 
board, safety poster, flowerpot, dust bin, door, 
stool, library cupboard etc. These are useful for 
students, birds and people. Incinerator support 
for responsible disposal of sanitary pads was 
supported in Tamilnadu to 5 village schools for 
1333 girl students and 686 kgs of sanitary pad 
waste was incinerated. 236 kgs of peacock feed 
was provided to enhance the dwindling peacock 
population in one Gujarat village benefitting 50 
peacocks. Organic farming training awareness has 
benefitted 60 farmers giving them insight into low 
cost techniques without harm to environment and 
that are safe for humans. Seed broadcasting to 
enable growth of saplings in hilly areas was done 
in Karnataka on 10 hectors of land. To inculcate 
environmental 
consciousness 
among 
young 
minds 2000 saplings were raised in one school 
in Maharashtra through nursery for plantation in 
the village.
2.	
Empowerment:
	
Suzlon had formed over 500 VDCs (Village 
Development Committee) in the pre-pandemic 
period. Efforts were taken in the current reporting 
period 
to 
re-ignite 
them 
gradually. 
Village 
development committees (VDC) strengthening 
process was re-initiated in 7 States of India. 
Focus was given to selected VDCs on priority. In 
a structured manner, these have aligned with the 
7-stage empowerment process. After ascending to 
stage four, 91 VDCs have started livelihood activities 
like rental of event management equipment like 
furniture, vessels etc., RO (Reverse Osmosis) water 
filtration unit, tailoring unit, agro service equipment 
rental like multi-seed drill machine and grading 
machine, reusable sanitary pad manufacturing unit, 
masonry construction tool rental, palm products 
marketing. 75 out of 91 VDCs (82%) are in a 
profitable stage and will soon be able to contribute 
financially for village development. Exposure visit 
for 26 VDC members was organised to learn about 
local replicable innovation in Rajasthan, Andhra 
Pradesh and Gujarat State. Suzlon firmly believes 
that these VDCs will soon start working towards 
sustainable development of the villages after 
Suzlon exits to focus on other strategic needs.
	
Additionally, 
Suzlon 
has 
consistently 
worked 
towards empowering rural women to make them 
financially and socially independent through the 
Self-Help Groups (SHG). The purpose of this 
initiative is to improve women’s participation and 
development. This will further enable the upliftment 
of their families and villages.
	
International Day of Persons with disabilities 
was celebrated in Gujarat. Suzlon felicitated 43 
volunteers from 18 villages for their contribution in 
service of persons with disabilities.
3.	
Health:
	
During FY 23, general health camps helped reach 
primary health care inputs to 2,310 villagers. 
Since women are vulnerable and often do not 
seek health support due to social, economic 
and physical barriers 4,573 village women were 
specially reached under women health initiatives 
like cancer screening & other women health check-
up camps. Reusable cloth pads were distributed 
to 482 women this enabled them access to these 
feminine hygiene products to protect their health 
in Rajasthan State. Video screening about women's 
health was organized for 100 women in 7 villages 
of Karnataka. Awareness about supplementary 
food with breast feeding for infants was conducted 
for 20 mothers in Madhya Pradesh. Awareness 
and counselling sessions on personal hygiene and 
sanitation were conducted for 300 households 
in Andhra Pradesh. Anganwadi health awareness 
sessions were conducted for 313 pregnant women 
in Karnataka, Gujarat and Rajasthan state.
	
In snakebite prone areas of Maharashtra snake bite 
awareness and prevention sessions were conducted 
for 170 students from 7 schools. Dengue Awareness 
was conducted for 150 villagers in Karnataka.
	
Blood Pressure and Sugar diagnostic camps were 
conducted for 263 villagers in Karnataka. Distribution 
of supplementary food for 40 malnourished children 
was undertaken in Madhya Pradesh saving lives. 
Eye screening camp to address refractive errors and 
prescribe glasses was undertaken for 40 patients 
in Karnataka. Eye-Cataract screening camp was 
undertaken for 668 patients in 8 villages and 80 
patients identified underwent cataract surgery 
getting back their vision in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka 
and Gujarat. Eye-cataract screening camp for 200 
truck drivers was organized in collaboration with 
Truck driver association in Tamil Nadu and 18 of 
them identified underwent cataract surgeries. In 
Tamil Nadu, open gym equipment was provided that 
enabled 30 children to access exercise equipment 
resulting in better health status.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
113
	
In order to ensure that the Police who are involved 
in public welfare are healthy, health camp was 
conducted for Police department in Tamil Nadu. 
200 police personnel were reached out of which 80 
of them were identified with health issues and were 
referred for further treatment. Vehicle support for 
extensive movement and polio vaccination coverage 
was provided to Primary Health Centre that was 
beneficial for 500 eligible children in Gujarat. 
Refrigerator was donated to Health Department in 
Tamil Nadu for storage of essential items.
	
Suzlon clinics operational for employees are also 
open for access to village community members. 
9 Suzlon Medical Officers reached out to 29,535 
patients during FY 23 through Suzlon free clinics 
and 41 villages were reached through community 
health camps involving Suzlon doctors.
4.	
Livelihoods:
	
This year Suzlon has focused on farmers under the 
livelihood initiatives reaching over, 3,048 farmers. 
2,100 horticulture plants were provided to 210 
farmers for sustainable income. Agriculture pipeline 
support was given to 1,382 farmers in Maharashtra, 
due to this, water will be available for 12 months 
for Agriculture activity which has resulted in the 
increased crop production. This will further translate 
into an increase in the cumulative income of ₹ 8 Lakh 
for the farmers. In Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, 
the cumulative income increased by ₹ 2.55 lakhs for 
135 farmers due to improved methods of farming. 
In Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka 130 farmers 
cultivated green fodder for increase in livestock milk 
production in 35 acres. This resulted in a cumulative 
increase in income by ₹ 70,000/- for them. 2,062 
farmers produced over 2,87,354 kgs of manure and 
thereby were able to increase their income due to 
Liquid decomposer technique support provided 
in Karnataka, Maharashtra. Madhya Pradesh, 
Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu. 48 farmers and their 200 
livestock animals benefited from improved fodder 
grass seed distribution in Madhya Pradesh. 1,923 
animals were treated through vaccination in Tamil 
Nadu. 2990 community members were provided a 
variety of livelihood support like goat rearing, small 
businesses, backyard poultry etc. In Karnataka and 
Gujarat 150 farmers received IABLP (Integrated 
Agriculture and Land Based Livelihood) training. 
300 farmers adopted new practices through Kisan 
Pathshala (farmer field school initiative) in Madhya 
Pradesh. Honey bee keeping training was provided 
to 22 youths in Tamilnadu.
	
78 villagers and women benefitted through the 
tailoring machine support and used it for income 
generation activity in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, 
Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu.
	
Through Suzlon employee contribution as part of 
meaningful birthday celebrations sewing machines 
were provided to 15 women as livelihood support 
which resulted in income increase by ₹0.94 Lakh 
in Karnataka and Tamilnadu. Tailoring training 
provided to 37 women resulted in income increase 
by ₹0.86 Lakh in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and 
Gujarat.
	
Suzlon CSR was one of the sponsors in Kutch for 
a regional event called the Paatkori initiative in 
which 250 stakeholders including the artisans 
that were part of Suzlon CSR and customer 
collaborative SuJeevan project initiative, in the 
previous year, gathered with other artisans for an 
exhibition and market exposure to enhance their 
collective livelihood opportunities. 138 households 
in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu received loans with 
minimum interest from corpus fund given to VDC. 
30 Self Help Group members received financial 
support through a revolving fund in Andhra Pradesh 
and Maharashtra. These amounts were used mostly 
to purchase livestock or start a small business.
	
In Tamil Nadu the annual income of one deserving 
family increased by ₹ 12,000/- through livelihood 
support for laundry service-based livelihood.
5.	
Education:
	
401 schools were supported in FY 23 through 
various initiatives benefiting students with increase 
in knowledge, access to amenities and exposure to 
modern facilities. 37,086 students were supported 
through various education activities. 193 students 
benefitted with better facilities due to support 
provided to enhance the school infrastructure 
like compound wall, playground wire fencing and 
playground levelling for their safety in Gujarat and 
300 students in Tamil Nadu benefited due to school 
playground cleaning. 1895 students stood much to 
gain from school furniture support in Maharashtra, 
Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan.
	
150 students have undergone digital internet training 
in Karnataka to be better equipped for the digital 
world. 310 students in Karnataka benefited from 
Digital E- learning unit installation. In Maharashtra, 
117 students learned computer skills. E-learning 
support was provided to Anganwadi (child care 
centre) for 348 under -five children in Gujarat. 875 
students benefited form Library cupboard support 
in Gujarat. Library kit was provided for 1877 students 
in Tamilnadu. In Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, 
Tamilnadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana 12318 
students received Education kits consisting of 
notebooks and accessories. As part of the school 
competition that helps to develop a student’s 
personality, 13 winners were identified out of 95 
Annual Report 2022-23
114
participating students’ in Karnataka. 65 students 
from 8 schools in Maharashtra state participated in 
Chess Board Training and Competition. 40 students 
from families with no education background 
improved their scholastic performance due to 
interventions from tuition centre initiative. 2,986 
students in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamilnadu 
and Gujarat received better knowledge through 
awareness program on environment. Road safety 
program was undertaken for 180 students in 
Tamilnadu inculcating safety habits.
6.	
Civic Amenities:
	
LED (Light Emitting Diode) bulb were installed for 
1000 households and 133 streetlights resulted 
in 771200 hrs of savings in conventional energy. 
20 
solar 
streetlights, 
90 
Solar 
Home 
UPS 
(Uninterruptible power supply) and 60 school solar 
lighting systems resulted in 27860 hrs of savings in 
conventional energy.
 	
5,000 cubic meter of water was made available to 
villagers for drinking purpose due to installation of 
drinking water tank at a Primary Health Centre in 
Maharashtra. 3,000 cubic meter water was made 
available for 1500 domestic animal through water 
tank installation in Gujarat. 1,000 cubic meter of 
ground water capacity was increased due to farm 
pond repair in Maharashtra that benefited 125 
villagers. 600 cubic meter water became available 
through water tank installation in school for 40 
students in Rajasthan. In Tamil Nadu 300 cubic 
meter water was made available by cleaning water 
canal to enable ease of water flow which resulted in 
decrease in water scarcity for 100 villagers as well 
as increase in water storage capacity by 290 cubic 
meter benefitting 377 villagers due to water tank 
installation.
	
Anganwadi (child care centre) Support of Play 
material, meal plate and bowl, educational charts, 
mat, chairs, benches, water tank installation, 
weighing scale etc. was provided to 5754 children in 
Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat, Maharashtra, 
Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan & Tamil Nadu. 370 
specially abled received support like wheel chair, 
walker, stick, hearing aid, tricycle in Andhra Pradesh, 
Karnataka, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, 
Rajasthan & Tamil Nadu. A school of 83 students 
in Tamil Nadu was provided with Fire Extinguisher 
support for safety. 10 fire rescue personnel from Fire 
Service Department were supported in Tamil Nadu 
with anti-smoke mask. In 450 villages prevention 
of mosquito related diseases was undertaken in 
Tamil Nadu by providing Mosquito spray machine 
to Panchayat. In Karnataka 24 crime and accidents 
incidents were detected through CCTV camera 
supported to Police Station. Due to supply of 20 
Traffic Button Light supported to Police Department 
in Tamil Nadu, life of citizens was protected in 
approximately 100 incidents and accidents. Sport 
kit provided to 321 youth in Tamil Nadu & to 4145 
students in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat, 
Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan & Tamil Nadu. 29 
students in Maharashtra received better sanitation 
facility due to repair of toilets and 25 students 
benefited from school toilet construction.
	
Due to 8 sound systems installed in the villages in 
Gujarat state, there was an increase in community 
mobilization and communication during COVID 
pandemic and beyond.
7.	
Response to Disasters:
	
To prevent the spread of coronavirus infection 
(COVID-19) and mitigate its impacts 930 villagers 
received COVID-19 Control Kits (temperature 
screening gun, masks and sanitizers) along with 
frequent awareness sessions about prevention 
and control measures during the pandemic 
in various parts of the country. 15 personal 
protective equipment (PPE) kits were provided to 
at risk sanitary workers in Tamil Nadu. Reusable 
cloth masks were also distributed to 350 villagers 
in Rajasthan. 2000 villagers were screened 
using pulse oximeter & temperature screening 
gun that was provided to 2 Gram Panchayats in 
Tamil Nadu.
8.	
Employee volunteering and employee giving:
	
In FY 23, Suzlon through its CSR employee 
volunteering and giving program brought some 
solace to the families of persons in need of 
educational support; eased the burden of medical 
expenses of needy persons; financially supported 
family members of employees deceased due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic through Suz-COVID-19 
funds; brought hope to women through livelihood 
support and enabled mobility to the specially-abled 
people; provided educational tools to students and 
protected the environment.
	
7,341 Volunteers (include 4651 Suzlon employees 
and 2690 contract staff) participated this FY 23 
in various CSR initiatives by contributing 60,780 
person hours (include 41,648 employee person-
hours and 19132 contract staff person-hours).
	
389 employees contributed a total of 18.29 Lakh 
through 746 instances of voluntary donation towards 
social and environmental initiatives.
	
Additionally, 345 employees part of 24 business 
teams, 12 Vendor with 91 team members and 5 
Customer teams have donated directly at the point 
of intervention amounting to over ₹ 90 Lakh.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
115
	
Suzlon employees donated generously towards 
Humanitarian causes for medical treatment for 2 
needy persons from Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu; 
educational support for 2 needy persons from 
Maharashtra.
	
Suzlon 
launched 
the 
meaningful 
birthday 
celebrations initiative for Suzlonians and family 
members. This resulted in a contribution of ₹ 3.10 
Lakh by employees and their family members. These 
contributions were pledged for activities that were 
implemented on their behalf by Suzlon CSR team 
and local employees from sites near the villages. 
Through this contribution tailoring machine was 
provided to 15 rural women towards their livelihood; 
mobility devices were given to 7 specially-abled 
persons; Notebooks were distributed to 550 rural 
needy children and 80 trees were planted and 
protected making it a truly meaningful birthday for 
the Suzlonians and their families.
	
Suzlon promoted some special initiatives, with 
deeper involvement of the employees to benefit 
the villages directly while encouraging a healthy 
competition 
between 
the 
various 
business 
units. These included, the cloth bag promotion 
challenge in which 4,806 cloth bags and ₹ 50,559 
were donated by 2,268 employees; cloth bags 
were crafted from usable waste clothes by 125 
family members; under the community electricity 
energy awareness promotion challenge, 332 
sessions were conducted with participation of 
12,000 villagers and students. The Suz-HOOK 
Assembly challenge in which 4,579 Suz_HOOK 
(Suz_HOOK is an ingenious innovation by Suzlon 
that can be prepared using a small metal wire 
twisted in the shape of a hook and tied to a string 
that can be used to segregate and store plastic for 
recycling in low income setting) were assembled 
by Suzlonians from waste material; the Suzlon 
Walkathon challenge in which 20.96 crors steps 
were walked by 1,294 employees and the steps 
donated to various causes promoted under Suzlon 
CSR were matched with funds from Suzlon to the 
tune of ₹ 8.39 Lakh for the cause.
Annual Report 2022-23
116
A.	
Assets
	
1.	
Property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets*
₹ Crore
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Property, plant and equipment
696
774
Right-of-use assets
82
134
Capital work-in-progress
3
15
Investment properties
29
31
Intangible assets (including goodwill)
58
121
Intangible assets under development
3
4
	
	
*Net of depreciation and amortisation
a.	
During the year, property, plant and equipment of ₹ 81 Crore and intangible assets of ₹ 33 Crore were 
capitalised, compared to ₹ 105 Crore and ₹ 40 Crore respectively in the previous year.
b.	
Assets taken on lease are recognised as right-of-use assets. The reduction of ₹ 52 Crore in right-of-use 
assets is primarily due to the surrender or non-renewable of certain leased manufacturing facilities in the 
Special Economic Zone.
c.	
Capital work-in-progress primarily includes building, and plant and machinery under construction.
d.	
Investment properties consist of certain office premises that are leased and considered at deemed costs.
e.	
Intangible assets, which comprise of design and drawings, SAP and other software, amounted to 
₹ 58 Crore as compared to ₹ 121 Crore.
	
2.	
Financial assets
₹ Crore
Particulars
Non-current
Current
Total
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
Investments
0^
0^
-
-
0^
0^
Trade receivables
-
-
1,170
1,377
1,170
1,377
Cash and bank balances
357
94
368
501
725
595
Loans
-
-
0^
0^
0^
0^
Other financial assets
76
170
149
121
225
291
Total
433
264
1,687
1,999
2,120
2,263
	
	
^ Less than ₹ 1 Crore.
a.	
Financial assets reduced to ₹ 2,120 Crore from ₹ 2,263 Crore in the previous year.
b.	
The net reduction of ₹ 143 Crore is primarily due to reduction in the trade receivables and other financial 
assets by ₹ 207 Crore and ₹ 66 Crore respectively while cash and bank balances have increased by ₹ 130 
Crore.
c.	
The decrease in trade receivables is due to the timely realisation of receivables and lower new addition.
Highlights of consolidated results
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
117
d.	
The decrease in other financial assets is primarily due to the refund of security deposit received upon 
surrendering or non-renewable of lease facilities.
e.	
The increase in cash and bank balances is mainly attributed to the collection of proceeds from the Rights 
issue, which remained unutilised near the end of the year, utilised subsequently.
	
3.	
Non-financial assets
₹ Crore
Particulars
Non-current
Current
Total
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
Inventories
-
-
1,827
2,208
1,827
2,208
Other assets
40
29
627
811
667
840
Current tax asset, net
-
-
0^
1
0^
1
Total
40
29
2,455
3,020
2,495
3,049
a.	
Non-financial assets reduced to ₹ 2,495 Crore from ₹ 3,049 Crore in the previous year.
b.	
The reduction of ₹ 554 Crore was mainly due to the reduction in inventories and other assets by ₹ 381 
Crore and ₹ 173 Crore respectively.
c.	
The decrease in inventories is primarily attributed to improvements in lead time for procuring certain key 
components, strict procurement norms and enhanced project execution.
d.	
The net reduction in other assets is primarily due to the utilisation and refund of GST input credit, partially 
offset by an increase in vendor advances.
B.	
Equity and liabilities
	
1.	
Equity share capital
₹ Crore
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Authorised share capital
11,000
11,000
Issued share capital
2,458
1,847
Subscribed and fully / partly paid-up share capital
2,454
1,843
a.	
The subscribed and fully paid-up share capital is ₹ 2,414 Crore and partly paid-up share capital is ₹ 40 
Crore, thus totalling ₹ 2,454 Crore, compared to ₹ 1,843 Crore in the previous year.
b.	
The increase of ₹ 611 Crore is primarily due to the following factors:
i.	
The issuance of equity shares to existing shareholders on a right basis (Rights issue) amounting to 
₹ 440 Crore
ii.	
The issuance of equity shares upon conversion of Optionally Convertible Debentures (OCD) 
amounting to ₹ 114 Crore
iii.	
The issuance of equity shares to Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (FCCB) bondholders amounting 
to ₹ 57 Crore
Annual Report 2022-23
118
	
2.	
Other equity
₹ Crore
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Equity component of compound financial instruments
-
14
Capital reserve
23
23
Capital reserve on consolidation
0^
0^
Capital redemption reserve
15
15
Legal and statutory reserve
1
1
General reserve
917
917
Securities premium 
10,668
9,611
Capital contribution
6,505
6,273
Money received against share warrants
-
232
Retained earnings
(18,876)
(21,873)
Foreign currency translation reserve
(608)
(582)
Total
(1,355)
(5,369)
	
	
^ Less than ₹ 1 Crore
a.	
Equity component of compound financial instruments
	
The reduction in the equity component of compound financial instruments is attributable to the conversion 
of FCCB.
b.	
Securities premium
	
	
	
The increase of ₹ 1,057 Crore is due to the following factors:
	
	
	
•	
The issuance of rights shares, net of issue expenses, amounting to ₹ 640 Crore,
	
	
	
•	
The conversion of OCD amounting to ₹ 403 Crore and
	
	
	
•	
The conversion of FCCB amounting to ₹ 14 Crore.
	
	
c.	
Capital contribution
	
	
	
The increase of ₹ 232 Crore in the capital contribution is on account of the transfer of balance lying in the 
share warrants account, on share, warrants surrendered and lapsed.
	
	
d.	
Money received against share warrants
	
	
	
During the year, 49.86 Crore convertible warrants allotted in June 2020 got surrendered and lapsed and 
the amount got transferred to capital contribution.
 
 
e. 
Foreign currency translation reserve (FCTR)
	
	
	
The change in FCTR is due to exchange rate fluctuations resulting from the translation of the financial 
statements of overseas subsidiaries into the reporting currency of the parent company, i.e. INR.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
119
	
3.	
Financial liabilities
	
a.	
Borrowings
₹ Crore
Particulars
Non-current
Current
Total
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
Secured
1,509
5,513
42
27
1,551
5,540
Unsecured
8
79
-
-
8
79
Total
1,517
5,592
42
27
1,559
5,619
Current maturities of long-
term borrowings
-
-
346
771
346
771
Grand total
1,517
5,592
388
798
1,905
6,390
i.	
Total borrowings reduced to ₹ 1,905 Crore from ₹ 6,390 Crore in the previous year.
ii.	
The reduction of ₹ 4,485 Crore is on account of:
•	
Net repayment of the borrowings amounting to ₹ 1,339 Crore;
•	
Conversion of FCCBs into equity shares amounting to ₹ 53 Crore;
•	
Conversion of OCD into equity shares of the Company and conversion of CCPS into equity shares of 
a subsidiary pursuant to the implementation of Refinancing Proposal amounting to ₹ 2,981 Crore and
•	
De-recognition of liability amounting to ₹ 112 Crore pursuant to a dissolution of an overseas subsidiary.
	
b.	
Other financial liabilities
₹ Crore
Particulars
Non-current
Current
Total
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
Trade payables
 - 
 - 
895
1,840
895
1,840
Lease liabilities
18
58
15
17
33
75
Other financial liabilities
19
22
202
363
221
385
Total
37
80
1,112
2,220
1,149
2,300
i.	
Other financial liabilities reduced to ₹ 1,149 Crore from ₹ 2,300 Crore in the previous year.
ii.	
The reduction of ₹ 1,151 Crore is due to the following factors:
•	
Trade payables decreased by ₹ 945 Crore as a result of the retirement of payables through improved 
liquidity bringing overdue payments under control ,
•	
Lease liabilities decreased by ₹ 42 Crore towards surrender of leased manufacturing facilities
•	
Other financial liabilities decreased by ₹ 164 Crore, primarily on account of de-recognition of interest 
accrued on borrowings amounting to ₹ 63 Crore pursuant to dissolution of an overseas subsidiary, 
₹ 49 Crore towards settlement of advances received against assets held for sale and balance ₹ 52 
Crore towards settlement of other liabilities.
Annual Report 2022-23
120
	
4.	
Other liabilities and provisions
₹ Crore
Particulars
Non-current
Current
Total
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
Contract liabilities
-
-
573
477
573
477
Other liabilities
0^
0^
58
81
58
81
Provisions
168
130
569
484
737
614
Total
168
130
1,200
1,042
1,368
1,172
	
	
^ Less than ₹ 1 Crore
a.	
Contract liabilities increased to ₹ 573 Crore from ₹ 477 Crore in the previous year, primarily due to the 
signing of new sale contracts
b.	
Provisions increased to ₹ 737 Crore from ₹ 614 Crore in the previous year, mainly due to increase in 
customer-related provisions.
c.	
Other liabilities reduced to ₹ 59 Crore from ₹ 81 Crore in the previous year
C.	
Cashflow
	
The business generated positive cash flow from operations. Net cash generated from operating activities and 
investment activities is ₹ 467 Crore and ₹ 85 Crore respectively. However, repayment of long-term liabilities resulted 
in a cash outflow of ₹ 684 Crore from financing activities. Net repayment of long-term borrowings stood at ₹ 1,354 
Crore and payment of interest and other borrowing costs amounted to ₹ 425 Crore, while proceeds from short-term 
borrowings were ₹ 15 Crore and proceeds from the right issue, after deducting issue expenses, are ₹ 1,080 Crore.
D.	
Results of operations
₹ Crore
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Revenue from contracts with customers 
5,947
6,520
Other operating income
24
62
Other income
20
22
Total income
5,990
6,604
Cost of goods sold
3,783
4,332
Employee benefits expense
609
545
Finance costs
421
735
Depreciation and amortisation expense (including impairment losses)
260
260
Other expenses
747
815
Total expenses
5,819
6,687
Profit/ (loss) before exceptional items and tax
171
(83)
Exceptional gain 
(2,721)
(83)
Tax expense
4.42
167
Share of loss of joint venture
-
(10)
Net profit/ (loss) for the year
2,887
(177)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
121
	
Principal components of results of operations
	
1.	
Revenue from operations
	
	
The Group achieved revenue of ₹ 5,947 Crore as against ₹ 6,520 Crore in the previous year, a reduction of 8.8%. 
The reduction is mainly due to lower sales of WTGs as the Company was facing certain constraints on working 
capital facilities.
	
2.	
Cost of goods sold (‘COGS’)
	
COGS as a percentage of revenue from operations stood at 63.6% as compared to 66.4% in the previous year. 
The difference is mainly attributed to the sales mix.
	
3.	
Employee benefits expense
	
Employee benefits expense increased by 11.70% to ₹ 609 Crore from ₹ 545 Crore in the previous year. This 
is primarily due to the growth in business operations and annual increments. Suzlon has retained its overall 
workforce, as this talent pool is critical for current business operations as well as for capturing future industry 
opportunities.
	
4.	
Finance cost
	
Finance cost decreased to ₹ 421 Crore compared to ₹ 735 Crore in the previous year. The cost reduction is a 
result of substantial loan repayments made during the year and reduced amount of outstanding debt.
	
5.	
Depreciation and amortisation expense (including impairment losses)
	
Depreciation and amortisation expense remained stable.
	
6.	
Other expenses
	
Other expenses (excluding exchange differences) decreased to ₹ 740 Crore from ₹ 877 Crore in the previous 
year, as a result of effective cost control and lower sales volumes. The exchange differences resulted in a loss 
of ₹ 7 Crore compared to an exchange gain of ₹ 61 Crore in the previous year.
	
7.	
Profit / (loss)
	
The consolidated EBITDA (before exchange differences) is ₹ 839 Crore which is almost at par with ₹ 828 
Crore of the previous year, despite the decrease in sales volume. This can be attributed to the continued good 
operating performance and effective cost control. The consolidated EBITDA (after exchange difference) is 
₹ 832 Crore compared to EBITDA of ₹ 889 Crore in the previous year.
	
Consolidated EBIT stood at ₹ 572 Crore compared to ₹ 630 Crore in the previous year. There was a gain in 
exceptional items of ₹ 2,721 Crore during the year as compared to ₹ 83 Crore in the previous year. Therefore, 
net profit after tax stands at ₹ 2,887 Crore compared to a loss of ₹ 166 Crore in the previous year. The share in 
profit/(loss) of the joint venture is ₹ Nil compared to the loss of ₹ 10 Crore in the previous year as the Company 
has sold its stake in SGL, a joint venture entity.
Annual Report 2022-23
122
E. 
Key financial ratios
₹ Crore
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Change (%)
Debtors turnover ratio(i)
4.67
5.08
(8)
Inventory turnover ratio(i)
2.95
2.98
(1)
Interest coverage ratio(ii)
1.35
1.96
(31)
Current ratio(iii)
1.55
1.20
29
Debt-equity ratio(iv)
1.73
(1.79)
197
Operating profit margin (%)(i)
13.99
13.64
3
Net profit margin (before exceptional) (%)(iv)
2.80
(3.98)
170
Return on net worth(iv)
262.69
4.96#
5200
(i)	
There is no significant change (i.e., change of more than 25% compared to the immediately previous financial 
year) in the ratios.
(ii)	
Reduction in ratio is due to towards lower EBIT as compared to previous year.
(iii)	 Retirement of trade payables and reduction in current maturities of borrowings has resulted in a better current 
ratio.
(iv)	 During the year, pursuant to the refinancing of debt, borrowings have gone down substantially and thereby 
there is reduction in the finance cost and the exceptional gain being higher than previous year , the improvement 
in certain ratios is high and exceptional.
	
# Since there is a loss for the year and a negative net worth, the ratio appears to be positive.
	
Detailed explanation of ratios
	
1.	
Debtors turnover ratio
	
This ratio quantifies a Company’s effectiveness in collecting receivables or money owed by customers. It is 
calculated by dividing turnover by average trade receivables.
	
2.	
Inventory turnover ratio
	
The inventory turnover ratio how quickly a Company sells and replaces its inventory during a period. It is 
calculated by dividing the cost of goods sold by the average inventory.
	
3.	
Interest coverage ratio
	
The interest coverage ratio measures how many times a Company can cover its current interest payment with 
its available earnings. It is calculated by dividing earnings before interest and tax (‘EBIT’) by interest costs.
	
4.	
Current ratio
	
The current ratio is a liquidity ratio that measures a Company’s ability to pay short-term obligations or those 
due within one year. It is calculated by dividing current assets by current liabilities.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
123
	
5.	
Debt-equity ratio
	
This ratio evaluates a Company’s financial leverage and the extent to which it finances its operations through 
debt versus wholly owned funds. It is calculated by dividing a Company’s total debt by its shareholder’s equity.
	
6.	
Operating profit margin
	
Operating profit margin is a profitability ratio used to calculate the percentage of profit a Company generates 
from its operations. It is calculated by dividing the EBITDA by turnover.
	
7.	
Net profit margin
	
The net profit margin is equal to how much net profit is generated as a percentage of revenue. It is calculated 
by dividing the net profit for the year by turnover.
	
8.	
Return on net worth
	
	
This ratio measures profitability as a percentage of shareholder’s equity. It is calculated by dividing the net 
profit ( including exceptional gains) for the year by shareholder’s equity.
Cautionary statement
Suzlon Group has included statements in this discussion, that contain words or phrases such as “will”, “aim”, “likely result”, 
“believe”, “expect”, “will continue”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “intend”, “plan”, “contemplate”, “seek to”, “future”, “objective”, 
“goal”, “project”, “should”, “will pursue” and similar expressions or variations of such expressions that are “forward-
looking statements”.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to 
differ materially from those contemplated by the relevant forward-looking statement. Important factors that could cause 
actual results to differ materially from the Suzlon Group’s expectations include:
•	
Variation in the demand for electricity
•	
Changes in the cost of generating electricity from wind energy and changes in wind patterns
•	
Changes in or termination of policies of state governments in India that encourage investment in power projects
•	
General economic and business conditions in India and other countries
•	
Suzlon’s ability to successfully implement its strategy, growth and expansion plans and technological initiatives
•	
Changes in the value of the ` and other currencies
•	
Potential mergers, acquisitions or restructurings and increased competition
•	
Changes in laws and regulations
•	
Changes in political conditions
•	
Changes in the foreign exchange control regulations
•	
Changes in the laws and regulations that apply to the wind energy industry, including tax laws
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
	
Vinod R. Tanti
Place: Pune	
Chairman and Managing Director
Date: July 25, 2023
DIN: 00002266
Annual Report 2022-23
124
1.	
Company’s philosophy on corporate governance 
– The Company’s corporate governance philosophy 
rests on the pillars of integrity, accountability, equity, 
transparency 
and 
environmental 
responsibility 
that confirm fully with the laws, regulations and 
guidelines. The Company’s philosophy on corporate 
governance is to achieve business excellence 
and maximise shareholder value through ethical 
business conduct, which also includes building 
partnerships with all stakeholders, employees, 
customers, 
vendors, 
service 
providers, 
local 
communities and government. The Company’s 
mission is to deliver utility scale, best in class, and 
end to end integrated renewable energy solutions 
to its stakeholders.
2.	
Board of Directors of the Company (the “Board”) – 
The Board is entrusted and empowered to oversee 
the management, direction and performance of 
the Company with a view to protect interest of the 
stakeholders and enhance value for shareholders. 
The Board monitors the strategic direction of the 
Company.
2.1	 Composition – As on March 31, 2023 and as on 
date of this Report, the Board comprises of ten 
Directors, out of which two are Executive Directors 
(both Promoter Directors), three are Non-executive 
Directors (including one Nominee Director) and 
five are Independent Directors (including one 
Woman Independent Director). As on March 31, 
2023 and as on date of this Report, the Company 
is in compliance with Regulations 17(1)(a), 17(1)(b) 
and 17(1)(c) of the Listing Regulations pertaining 
to optimum combination of Executive and Non-
executive Directors with one Woman Independent 
Director, not less than fifty per cent of the Board 
comprising of Non-executive Directors and at 
least half of the Board comprising of Independent 
Directors. The Company is also in compliance with 
the provisions of Section 149(4) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (the “Act”).
2.2	 Independent Directors –
a.	
Declaration of Independence – In terms 
of Section 149(7) of the Act, Mr. Marc 
Desaedeleer, Mr. Per Hornung Pedersen, Mr. 
Sameer Shah, Mrs. Seemantinee Khot and 
Mr. Gautam Doshi, the Independent Directors, 
have given a declaration to the Company that 
they meet the criteria of independence as 
specified under Section 149(6) of the Act and 
the Listing Regulations. The Board confirms 
that in its opinion the Independent Directors 
fulfil the conditions specified in terms of the 
Act and the Listing Regulations and that they 
are independent of the management of the 
Company. All the Directors are in compliance 
with the limit on independent directorships 
of listed companies as prescribed under 
Regulation 17A of the Listing Regulations. 
The terms and conditions of appointment of 
Independent Directors have been disclosed on 
the website of the Company as required in terms 
of Regulation 46 of the Listing Regulations 
and is available at Company’s weblink https://
www.suzlon.com/NewPdf/Shareholders_
I nfor mation/Cor por ate_Gover nan c e_
Policies/2022-23/Terms-and-Conditions-for-
appointment-of-Independent-Directors.pdf. 
During the year under review and up to the 
date of this Report, none of the Independent 
Directors have resigned from directorship of 
the Company. Further, in the opinion of the 
Board of Directors of the Company, all the 
Independent Directors are persons having 
high standards of integrity and they possess 
requisite knowledge, qualifications, experience 
(including proficiency) and expertise in their 
respective fields.
b.	
Separate meeting of Independent Directors 
– In accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule IV of the Act and Regulation 25 of 
the Listing Regulations, a separate meeting 
of the Independent Directors was held on 
May 12, 2022 without the participation of 
non-Independent Directors and the members 
of 
the 
management. 
The 
Independent 
Directors discussed on various aspects, viz., 
performance of non-Independent Directors 
and the Board as a whole, performance of the 
chairperson of the Company, quality, quantity 
and timeliness of flow of information between 
the Company management and the Board that 
is necessary for the Board to effectively and 
reasonably perform its duties.
c.	
Familiarisation programme – In terms of the 
provisions of Regulation 25 of the Listing 
Regulations, the Company has put in place a 
familiarisation programme for newly inducted 
Directors. The same is available on the 
Company’s weblink at https://www.suzlon.
com/NewPdf/Shareholders_Information/
Corporate_Governance_Policies/2022-23/
Familiarisation_Programme.pdf.
2.3	 Confirmation 
regarding 
membership 
/ 
chairmanship of committees – All the Directors 
have certified that they are not members of more 
than ten mandatory committees and do not act 
as the chairperson of more than five mandatory 
committees in terms of the Regulation 26 of the 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
For the year ended March 31, 2023
As required under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended (the “Listing Regulations”)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
125
Listing Regulations across all the companies in 
which they are directors.
2.4	 Board procedure – The Board meets at regular 
intervals and discusses regular Board business 
as well as policies and strategy matters. All the 
necessary documents and information pertaining 
to the matters to be considered at each Board and 
Committee meetings is made available to enable 
the Board and Committee members to discharge 
their responsibilities effectively.
2.5	 Meetings held during the year – During FY 23, the 
Board met five times on May 25, 2022, August 10, 
2022, October 7, 2022, November 10, 2022 and 
February 9, 2023. The gap between any two Board 
meetings did not exceed one hundred and twenty 
days. Apart from various meetings, the Board / 
Committees also considered and approved certain 
matters by circular resolutions, which were ratified 
at the next meeting of the Board as required in 
terms of the Act.
2.6	 Attendance, directorships and committee positions – The name and categories of the Directors on the Board, their 
attendance record, the number of directorships and committee positions as on March 31, 2023, are as under:
Name of the Director
Category
Attendance at 
meetings  
held during FY23
Total no. of 
Directorships 
as on March 
31, 2023
Total no. of membership of 
the committees of Board as 
on March 31, 2023
Total no. of chairmanship of 
the committees of Board as on 
March 31, 2023
Board
27th 
AGM on 
September 
29, 2022
Membership 
in audit / 
stakeholders’ 
relationship 
committees
Membership 
in other 
committees
Chairmanship 
in audit / 
stakeholders’ 
relationship 
committees
Chairmanship 
in other 
committees
Late Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti,1 
Promoter
DIN: 00002283
Late Chairman 
and Managing 
Director
2
(out of 2)
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti,2 
Promoter
DIN: 00002266
Chairman and 
Managing 
Director
5
(out of 5)
Yes
4
4
9
-
6
Mr. Girish R. Tanti,3 
Promoter
DIN: 00002603
Executive Vice 
Chairman
5
(out of 5)
No
1
1
3
-
-
Mr. Marc Desaedeleer
DIN: 00508623
Independent 
Director
4
(out of 5)
No
1
-
-
-
-
Mr. Per Hornung 
Pedersen
DIN: 07280323
Independent 
Director
5
(out of 5)
Yes
4
5
6
2
1
Mr. Rakesh Sharma,4
a nominee of State Bank 
of India
DIN: 06695734
Non-executive 
Director
1  
(out of 1)
N.A.
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Sameer Shah
DIN: 08702339
Independent 
Director
5 
(out of 5)
Yes
1
1
2
-
-
Mrs. Seemantinee Khot
DIN: 07026548
Independent 
Director
5
(out of 5)
Yes
4
-
2
-
-
Mr. Gautam Doshi
DIN: 00004612
Independent 
Director
3
(out of 5)
 Yes
5
6
8
3
3
Mr. Hiten Timbadia
DIN: 00210210
Non-executive 
Director
5
(out of 5)
Yes
1
-
-
-
-
Mr. Ajay Mathur5
DIN: 08805424
Nominee 
Director
3
(out of 3)
No
7
-
-
-
-
Mr. Pranav T. Tanti,6
Promoter
DIN: 02957770
Non-executive 
Director
2
(out of 2)
N.A.
1
-
1
-
-
	
1Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti passed away on October 1, 2022 and therefore ceased as the Chairman and Managing Director w.e.f. October 1, 
2022.
	
2 Mr. Vinod R. Tanti was appointed as Chairman and Managing Director w.e.f. October 7, 2022.
	
3 Mr. Girish R. Tanti was appointed as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. October 7, 2022.
	
4 Mr. Rakesh Sharma ceased as the Nominee Director of State Bank of India w.e.f. June 8, 2022.
	
5 Mr. Ajay Mathur was appointed as the Nominee Director of REC Limited w.e.f. August 10, 2022.
	
6 Mr. Pranav T. Tanti was appointed as the Non-Executive Director w.e.f. October 7, 2022.
Annual Report 2022-23
126
	
Notes:
•	
While 
considering 
the 
total 
number 
of 
directorships / committee positions, private 
companies, foreign companies and companies 
incorporated under Section 8 of the Act have 
been excluded.
•	
In terms of Part C of Schedule V of the Listing 
Regulations, it is hereby disclosed that Mr. 
Vinod R. Tanti, the Chairman and Managing 
Director is the brother of Mr. Girish R. Tanti, 
the Executive Vice Chairman and is related to 
Mr. Pranav T. Tanti, the Non-Executive Director. 
Except for the relationship between Mr. Vinod 
R. Tanti, Mr. Girish R. Tanti and Mr. Pranav T. 
Tanti there is no other inter-se relationship 
amongst other directors.
2.7	 Disclosures pertaining to directorships in other 
listed entities – The information pertaining to name 
of listed companies in which director is a director is 
as under:
Name of Director
Names of 
other listed 
companies 
where the 
concerned 
Director is a 
Director as on 
March 31, 2023
Category of  
Directorship
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti
None
N.A.
Mr. Girish R. Tanti
None
N.A.
Mr. Marc 
Desaedeleer
None
N.A.
Mr. Per Hornung 
Pedersen
PNE Wind AG, 
Cuxhaven, 
Germany 
(Frankfurt)
Chairman
Pyrophyte 
Acquisition Corp, 
United States 
(SPAC)
Independent 
Director
Mr. Sameer Shah
None
N.A.
Mrs. Seemantinee 
Khot
None
N.A.
Mr. Gautam Doshi
Sun 
Pharmaceutical 
Industries 
Limited
Independent 
Director
Piramal 
Enterprises 
Limited
Independent 
Director
Mr. Hiten Timbadia
None
N.A.
Mr. Ajay Mathur
None
N.A.
Mr. Pranav T. Tanti
None
N.A.
2.8	 Skills / expertise / competencies of the Board 
of Directors – The Table I below summarises the 
broad list of core skills / expertise / competencies 
identified in the context of the Company’s business 
/ sector and the Table II below summarises the core 
skills / expertise / competencies possessed by each 
Board member:
 
a. 
Table I – List of identified core skills / 
expertise / competencies
A.
Business and  
strategic 
acumen
Strong 
business 
and 
strategic 
acumen 
including 
understanding 
of 
global 
business 
dynamics, 
across 
various geographical markets, 
industry verticals and regulatory 
jurisdictions 
including 
entire 
wind value chain as well as 
process centricity
B.
Financial
Financial skills in the areas of 
accounting, 
taxation, 
forex, 
etc. resulting in proficiency 
in financial management, and 
financial reporting processes, 
or experience in supervising 
a principal financial officer, 
principal 
accounting 
officer, 
controller, or person performing 
similar functions
C.
Board 
service and 
governance
Experience in developing or 
understanding 
of 
corporate 
governance 
policies 
and 
practices, serving the best 
interests of all stakeholders, 
maintaining 
board 
and 
management 
accountability, 
building 
long-term 
effective 
stakeholder engagements and 
driving corporate ethics and 
values.
D.
Leadership and 
communication
Leadership experience in a 
sizeable enterprise, resulting 
in a practical understanding 
of 
organizations, 
processes, 
strategic 
planning, 
risk 
management, 
demonstrated 
strengths 
and 
effective 
communication.
E.
Industry and 
technology
Experience 
or 
knowledge 
about industry and technology, 
resulting in knowledge of how 
to 
anticipate 
technological 
trends, and extend or create 
new business models
F.
Sustainability, 
HSE & CSR
Experience or knowledge about 
Sustainability, Health, Safety 
and 
Environment 
practices 
including 
corporate 
social 
responsibility
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
127
 
b. 
Table II - Skills / expertise / competencies 
possessed by each director
Mr. Vinod R. 
Tanti
(A) Business and strategic 
acumen; (B) Financial; (C) Board 
service and governance; (D) 
Leadership and communication; 
(E) Industry and technology; (F) 
Sustainability, HSE & CSR
Mr. Girish R. 
Tanti
(A) Business and strategic 
acumen; (B) Financial; (C) Board 
service and governance; (D) 
Leadership and communication; 
(E) Industry and technology; (F) 
Sustainability, HSE & CSR
Mr. Marc 
Desaedeleer
(A) Business and strategic 
acumen; (B) Financial; (C) Board 
service and governance; (D) 
Leadership and communication; 
(E) Industry and technology
Mr. Per Hornung 
Pedersen
(A) Business and strategic 
acumen; (B) Financial; (C) Board 
service and governance; (D) 
Leadership and communication; 
(E) Industry and technology
Mr. Sameer Shah
(A) Business and Strategic 
acumen; (B) Financial; (C) Board 
service and governance; (D) 
Leadership and communication
Mrs. 
Seemantinee 
Khot
(C) Board service and 
governance; (D) Leadership and 
communication; (E) Industry and 
technology; (F) Sustainability, 
HSE & CSR
Mr. Gautam 
Doshi
(A) Business and strategic 
acumen; (B) Financial; (C) Board 
service and governance; (D) 
Leadership and communication
Mr. Hiten 
Timbadia
(A) Business and Strategic 
acumen; (B) Financial; (C) Board 
service and governance; (D) 
Leadership and communication
Mr. Ajay Mathur
(B) Financial; (C) Board service 
and governance; (D) Leadership 
and communication; (E) Industry 
and technology
Mr. Pranav T. 
Tanti
(A) Business and strategic 
acumen; (B) Financial; (C) Board 
service and governance; (D) 
Leadership and communication; 
(E) Industry and technology; 
	
It is hereby clarified that while the Board members 
possess the skills identified as per Table I, their area 
of core expertise is set out in Table II.
2.9	 Code of ethics – The Company has prescribed 
a code of ethics for its Directors and senior 
management. The code of ethics of the Company 
is available on Company’s weblink at https://www.
suzlon.com/NewPdf/Shareholders_Information/
Corporate_Governance_Policies/2022-23/Policy_
Code-of-Ethics.pdf. The declaration from the Group 
Chief Executive Officer in terms of Regulation 
34(3) read with Part D of Schedule V of the Listing 
Regulations, stating that as of March 31, 2023 
the Board members and the senior management 
personnel have affirmed compliance with the code 
of ethics laid down by the Company, has been 
included in this Report.
2.10	Code of practices and procedures for fair 
disclosure 
of 
unpublished 
price 
sensitive 
information and code of conduct to regulate, 
monitor and report trading by insiders – The 
Company has in place the code of practices and 
procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price 
sensitive information (“UPSI”) and the code of 
conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading 
by insiders (“Insider Trading Code”) in terms of 
Regulation 8 and 9 of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI PIT Regulations”) 
respectively.
	
The Code of practices and procedures for fair 
disclosure of UPSI and the Insider Trading Code 
of the Company is available on the Company’s 
weblink 
at 
https://www.suzlon.com/NewPdf/
Shareholders_Information/Corporate_Governance_
Policies/2022-23/Code-of-Fair-Disclosure_010419.
pdf; 
and 
https://www.suzlon.com/NewPdf/
Shareholders_Information/Corporate_Governance_
Policies/2022-23/Insider-Trading-Code-050221.
pdf.
3	
Committees of Board – The Board Committees 
focus on certain specific areas and make informed 
decisions within the delegated authority. Each 
Committee of the Board, whether mandatorily 
required to be constituted or otherwise, functions 
according to its scope that defines its composition, 
power and role in accordance with the Act and the 
Listing Regulations. The composition, meetings, 
attendance and the detailed terms of reference of 
various Committees of the Board are as under:
3.1	 Audit Committee – The Audit Committee of the 
Board has been constituted as per the requirements 
of Section 177 of the Act and Regulation 18 of the 
Listing Regulations.
a.	
Composition – As on March 31, 2023 and as 
on date of this Report, the Audit Committee 
comprises of four members out of which 
three are Independent Directors including the 
Chairman and one is an Executive Director. 
The composition of the Audit Committee is in 
compliance with the requirements of Section 
177 of the Act and Regulation 18 of the Listing 
Regulations as on March 31, 2023 and as on 
date of this Report.
b.	
Meetings and attendance –
i.	
During FY23, the Audit Committee met 
four times on May 24, 2022, August 9, 
2022, November 10, 2022 and February 
9, 2023. The gap between any two 
meetings of the Audit Committee did not 
exceed one hundred and twenty days. 
Annual Report 2022-23
128
The composition and attendance of the 
members is noted below:
Name of the 
member
Chairman 
/ member
No. of 
meetings 
attended
Mr. Per Hornung 
Pedersen
Chairman
4 (out of 4)
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti
Member
4 (out of 4)
Mr. Gautam Doshi
Member
3 (out of 4)
Mr. Sameer Shah
Member
4 (out of 4)
ii.	
The Chairman and Managing Director, 
Group Chief Executive Officer, Group 
Chief Financial Officer, representatives 
of the statutory auditors, representatives 
of internal auditors and senior officials 
of the Company are invited to attend the 
meetings of the Audit Committee from 
time to time. The Company Secretary of 
the Company acts as the secretary to the 
Audit Committee. The Chairman of the 
Audit Committee attended the Twenty 
Seventh Annual General Meeting of the 
Company held on September 29, 2022 
through Video Conferencing.
c.	
Terms of reference – The broad terms of 
reference of the Audit Committee include the 
following:
i.	
oversight of the Company’s financial 
reporting process and the disclosure of 
its financial information to ensure that the 
financial statement is correct, sufficient 
and credible;
ii.	
recommendation 
for 
appointment, 
remuneration and terms of appointment 
of Auditors of the Company;
iii.	
approval of payment to Statutory Auditors 
for any other services rendered by the 
Statutory Auditors;
iv.	
reviewing, with the management, the 
annual financial statements and Auditors’ 
report thereon before submission to 
the Board for approval, with particular 
reference to:
•	
matters required to be included in the 
Directors’ Responsibility Statement 
to be included in the Board’s report 
in terms of clause (c) of sub-section 
3 of section 134 of the Companies 
Act, 2013,
•	
changes, if any, in accounting 
policies and practices and reasons 
for the same,
•	
major accounting entries involving 
estimates based on the exercise of 
judgment by management,
•	
significant adjustments made in the 
financial statements arising out of 
audit findings,
•	
compliance with listing and other 
legal 
requirements 
relating 
to 
financial statements,
•	
disclosure of any related party 
transactions,
•	
modified opinion(s) in the draft audit 
report;
v.	
reviewing, with the management, the 
quarterly financial statements before 
submission to the Board for approval;
vi.	
monitoring the end use of funds raised 
through public offers and reviewing, with 
the management, the statement of uses 
/ application of funds raised through 
an issue (public issue, rights issue, 
preferential issue, etc.), the statement 
of funds utilised for purposes other 
than those stated in the offer document 
/ prospectus / notice and the report 
submitted by the monitoring agency 
monitoring the utilisation of proceeds 
of a public or rights issue, and making 
appropriate recommendations to the 
Board to take up steps in this matter;
vii.	 reviewing and monitoring the auditor’s 
independence and performance, and 
effectiveness of audit process;
viii.	 approval or any subsequent modification 
of transactions of the Company with 
related parties;
ix.	
scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and 
investments more particularly reviewing 
the utilisation of loans and / or advances 
from / investment by the holding company 
in the subsidiary exceeding Rupees One 
Hundred Crores or 10% of the asset size 
of the subsidiary, whichever is lower, 
including existing loans / advances / 
investments, if any;
x.	
valuation of undertakings or assets of the 
Company, wherever it is necessary;
xi.	
evaluation of internal financial controls 
and risk management systems;
xii.	 reviewing, 
with 
the 
management, 
performance of statutory and internal 
auditors, adequacy of the internal control 
systems;
xiii.	 reviewing the adequacy of internal audit 
function, if any, including the structure 
of the internal audit department, staffing 
and seniority of the official heading the 
department, reporting structure coverage 
and frequency of internal audit;
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
129
xiv.	 discussion with internal auditors of any 
significant findings and follow up there 
on;
xv.	 reviewing the findings of any internal 
investigations by the internal auditors 
into matters where there is suspected 
fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal 
control systems of a material nature and 
reporting the matter to the Board;
xvi.	 discussion with Statutory Auditors before 
the audit commences, about the nature 
and scope of audit as well as post-audit 
discussion to ascertain any area of 
concern;
xvii.	 to look into the reasons for substantial 
defaults in the payment to the depositors, 
debenture holders, shareholders (in case 
of non-payment of declared dividends) 
and creditors;
xviii.	to review / oversee the functioning of the 
Whistle Blower mechanism and / or vigil 
mechanism;
xix.	 approval of appointment of chief financial 
officer after assessing the qualifications, 
experience and background, etc. of the 
candidate;
xx.	 reviewing compliances with provisions 
of Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015 and verify that the 
systems for internal control pertaining 
to Insider Trading are adequate and 
operating effectively;
xxi.	 consider and comment on rationale, cost-
benefits and impact of schemes involving 
merger, demerger, amalgamation etc., on 
the Company and its shareholders;
xxii.	 carrying out any other function as is 
mentioned in the terms of reference of 
the Audit Committee; and
xxiii.	such other acts, deeds, matters and 
things as may be stipulated in terms 
of the Companies Act, 2013, and the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as 
amended (the “Listing Regulations”) and 
/ or such other regulatory provisions, as 
amended from time to time, as also as the 
Board of Directors of the Company may 
consider think fit.
	
During FY 23 the Audit Committee also 
reviewed and approved the related party 
transactions from time to time.
3.2	 Stakeholders Relationship Committee – 
The 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee has been 
constituted as per the requirements of Section 
178 of the Act and Regulation 20 of the Listing 
Regulations.
a.	
Composition – During FY 23, the Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee has been reconstituted 
w.e.f. October 7, 2022 by inducting Mr. Girish 
R. Tanti as a member in place of Late Mr. Tulsi 
R. Tanti. As on March 31, 2023 and as on date 
of this Report, the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee comprises of three members 
out of whom two are Executive Directors 
and one is a Non-executive Director. The 
Chairman of the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee is a Non-executive Independent 
Director. The composition of the Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee is in compliance with 
the requirements of Section 178 of the Act and 
Regulation 20 of the Listing Regulations as on 
March 31, 2023 and as on date of this Report.
b.	
Meetings and attendance –
i.	
During 
FY 
23, 
the 
Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee met twice on 
May 25, 2022 and November 9, 2022. 
The composition and attendance of the 
members is noted below:
Name of the member Chairman 
/ member
No. of 
meetings 
attended
Mr. Per Hornung 
Pedersen
Chairman
2 (out of 2)
Late Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti1 Member
1 (out of 1)
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti
Member
2 (out of 2)
Mr. Girish R. Tanti2
Member
1 (out of 1)
	
1 Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti passed away on October 1, 
2022 and therefore ceased as Member.
	
2 Mr. Girish R. Tanti was inducted as a Member 
w.e.f. October 7, 2022.
ii.	
The 
Chairman 
of 
the 
Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee attended the 
Twenty Seventh Annual General Meeting 
of the Company held on September 29, 
2022 through Video Conferencing.
c.	
Terms of reference – The broad terms of 
reference 
of 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee includes the following:
i.	
resolving the grievances of the security 
holders including complaints related to 
transfer / transmission of shares, non-
receipt of annual report, non-receipt 
of declared dividends, and issue of 
new / duplicate certificates, general 
meetings, etc.;
Annual Report 2022-23
130
ii.	
review of measures taken for effective 
exercise 
of 
voting 
rights 
by 
the 
shareholders;
iii.	
review of adherence to the service 
standards adopted by the Company 
in respect of various services being 
rendered by the Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent;
iv.	
review of the various measures and 
initiatives taken by the Company for 
reducing the quantum of unclaimed 
dividends and ensuring timely receipt 
of dividend warrants / annual reports / 
statutory notices by the shareholders of 
the Company; and
v.	
such other acts, deeds, matters and 
things as may be stipulated in terms 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as 
amended (the “Listing Regulations”) and 
/ or such other regulatory provisions, as 
amended from time to time, as also as the 
Board of Directors of the Company may 
consider think fit.
d.	
Name, designation and contact details of 
the Compliance Officer – Mrs. Geetanjali S. 
Vaidya, Company Secretary (ICSI Membership 
No.A18026), is the Compliance Officer of 
the Company. The Compliance Officer can 
be contacted at the corporate office of the 
Company at One Earth, Hadapsar, Pune-
411028, Maharashtra, India; Tel.: +91.20.6702 
2000; 
Fax: 
+91.20.6702 
2100; 
Email: 
investors@suzlon.com; Website: www.suzlon.
com.
e.	
Separate email-id for redressal of investors’ 
complaints – As per Regulation 6 of the Listing 
Regulations, the Company has designated 
a separate email id (investors@suzlon.com) 
exclusively for registering complaints by 
the investors.
f.	
Status of investors’ complaints – The status of investors’ complaints (including complaints pertaining to the 
Rights Issue of the Company) received and disposed during FY 23 is as under:
Particulars
Opening balance 
as on April 1, 
2022
Received 
during FY23
Disposed 
during FY 23
Pending as on 
March 31, 2023
Non receipt of refund orders
-
-
-
-
Non receipt of electronic credit of shares
-
508
508
-
Non receipt of dividend warrants
-
1
1
-
Non receipt of shares
-
-
-
-
Non receipt of annual reports
-
-
-
-
Non receipt of CAF
-
50
50
-
Complaints from stock exchanges
-
67
65
2*
Complaints from SEBI / SCORES
-
51
51
-
Complaints from legal / consumer forums
-
-
-
-
Total
-
677
675
2*
	
* ATR was filed with NSE.
	
There were no pending requests for transfer of shares of the Company as on March 31, 2023.
3.3	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee – The 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the 
Board has been constituted as per the requirements 
of Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of the 
Listing Regulations.
a.	
Composition – During FY 23, the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee has been 
reconstituted w.e.f. December 2, 2022 by 
inducting Mr. Sameer Shah and Mr. Pranav T. 
Tanti in place of Mr. Marc Desaedeleer and 
Mr. Girish R. Tanti. As on March 31, 2023 and 
as on date of this Report, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee comprises of three 
members, out of whom two are Independent 
Directors including the Chairman and one is 
a Non-executive Director. The composition of 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
is in compliance with the requirements of 
Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of the 
Listing Regulations as on March 31, 2023 and 
as on date of this Report.
b.	
Meetings and attendance –
i.	
During FY 23, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee met four times 
on May 25, 2022, August 10, 2022, 
September 2, 2022 and October 6, 2022. 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
131
The composition and attendance of the 
members is noted below:
Name of the 
member
Chairman 
/ member
No. of 
meetings 
attended
Mr. Marc 
Desaedeleer1
Chairman
4 (out of 4)
Mr. Per Hornung 
Pedersen2
Member
4 (out of 4)
Mr. Girish R. Tanti3
Member
4 (out of 4)
Mr. Sameer Shah4
Member
0 (out of 0)
Mr. Pranav T. Tanti5
Member
0 (out of 0)
	
	
	
1 Mr. Marc Desaedeleer ceased to be the 
Chairman as well as Member w.e.f. December 
2, 2022.
	
	
	
2 Mr. Per Hornung Pedersen designated as 
Chairman w.e.f. December 2, 2022.
	
	
	
3 Mr. Girish R. Tanti ceased to be Member w.e.f. 
December 2, 2022.
	
	
	
4 Mr. Sameer Shah Inducted as Member w.e.f. 
December 2, 2022.
	
	
	
5 Mr. Pranav T. Tanti Inducted as Member w.e.f. 
December 2, 2022.
ii.	
The Chairman of the Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
could 
not 
attend 
the 
Twenty 
Seventh 
Annual 
General Meeting of the Company held 
on September 29, 2022 through Video 
Conferencing.
c.	
Terms of reference – The broad terms of 
reference / role / authority of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee shall, inter alia, 
include the following:
i.	
formulation of the criteria for determining 
qualifications, 
positive 
attributes 
and independence of a director and 
recommend to the Board a policy, relating 
to the remuneration of the directors, 
key managerial personnel and other 
employees;
ii.	
for every appointment of an independent 
director, the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee shall evaluate the balance of 
skills, knowledge and experience on the 
Board and on the basis of such evaluation, 
prepare a description of the role and 
capabilities required of an independent 
director. 
The 
person 
recommended 
to the Board for appointment as an 
independent director shall have the 
capabilities identified in such description. 
For the purpose of identifying suitable 
candidates, the Committee may (a) use 
the services of an external agencies, if 
required; (b) consider candidates from a 
wide range of backgrounds, having due 
regard to diversity; and (c) consider the 
time commitments of the candidates;
iii.	
formulation of criteria for evaluation of 
performance of Independent Directors 
and the Board and specifying the 
manner 
for 
effective 
evaluation 
of 
performance of Board, its committees 
and individual directors to be carried out 
either by the Board, by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee or by an 
independent external agency and review 
its implementation and compliance;
iv.	
devising a policy on Board diversity;
v.	
identifying persons who are qualified 
to become directors and who may be 
appointed in senior management in 
accordance with the criteria laid down, 
and recommend to the Board their 
appointment and removal;
vi.	
whether to extend or continue the term of 
appointment of the Independent Director, 
on the basis of the report of performance 
evaluation of Independent Directors;
vii.	 recommend to the Board, all remuneration 
in whatever form, payable to the Directors 
/ senior management;
viii.	 effective implementation and operations 
of various existing and future plans / 
schemes including but not limiting to 
employee stock option plans (ESOP) 
/ employee stock purchase schemes 
(ESPS) / stock appreciation rights (SAR) 
schemes / general employee benefits 
schemes (GEBS) / retirement benefits 
schemes (RBS), if any of the Company
ix.	
determining 
eligible 
employee(s) 
to 
whom options / SARs /shares/ benefits 
be granted/ offered and fixing eligibility, 
performance 
criteria, 
exercise 
price, 
vesting period, lock-in period, etc. and 
to do all such acts, deeds, matters and 
things including but not limiting to:
•	
determining the quantum / number 
of options / SARs / shares / benefits 
to be granted / offered to each 
employee and in the aggregate and 
the times at which such grants / 
offers shall be made,
•	
determining the kind of benefits to 
be granted,
•	
laying down the conditions under 
which options / SARs / shares / other 
benefits may vested in the optionees 
/ grantees and may lapse in case 
of termination of employment for 
misconduct, etc.,
•	
determining the exercise period 
within which the optionee / grantee 
should exercise the options / SARs / 
Annual Report 2022-23
132
apply for shares and that options / 
SARs / shares would lapse on failure 
to exercise the same within the 
exercise period,
•	
specifying the time period within 
which the optionee / grantee shall 
exercise the vested options / SARs 
/ offered shares in the event of 
termination or resignation of the 
optionee / grantee,
•	
providing for the right to an optionee 
/ grantee to exercise all the options 
/ SARs / shares vested in him at one 
time or at various points of time 
within the exercise period;
•	
laying down the procedure for making 
a fair and reasonable adjustment 
to 
the 
entitlement 
/ 
including 
adjustment to the number of options 
/ SARs / shares and to the exercise 
price in case of corporate actions 
such as rights issues, bonus issues, 
merger, sub-division, consolidation 
and other corporate actions. In this 
regard, the following shall, inter alia, 
be taken into consideration by the 
compensation committee (i) the 
number and price of options / SARs 
shall be adjusted in a manner such 
that total value to the employee of 
the options / SARs remains the same 
after the corporate action; (ii) the 
vesting period and the life of the 
options / SARs shall be left unaltered 
as far as possible to protect the 
rights of the employee(s) who is 
granted such options / SARs,
•	
providing for the grant, vesting 
and exercise of options / shares in 
case of employees who are on long 
leave or whose services have been 
seconded to any other Company or 
who have joined any other subsidiary 
or other company at the instance of 
the employer company,
•	
determining 
eligibility 
to 
avail 
benefits 
under 
the 
general 
employee benefits schemes and / or 
retirement benefit schemes in case 
of employees who are on long leave,
•	
the 
procedure 
for 
funding 
the 
exercise of options / SARs,
•	
the procedure for buy-back of 
specified securities issued under 
these regulations, if to be undertaken 
at any time by the company, and the 
applicable terms and conditions, 
including (i) permissible sources 
of financing for buy-back; (ii) any 
minimum financial thresholds to be 
maintained by the company as per 
its last financial statements; and (iii) 
limits upon quantum of specified 
securities that the company may 
buy-back in a financial year,
•	
laying 
down 
the 
method 
for 
satisfaction of any tax obligation 
arising 
in 
connection 
with 
the 
options / shares,
x.	
perform such other acts, deeds, matters 
and things as may be stipulated in terms 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
Listing Regulations and / or such other 
regulatory provisions, as amended from 
time to time, as also as the Board of 
Directors of the Company may consider 
think fit.
d.	
Remuneration policy – In accordance with 
Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of 
the Listing Regulations, the Company has 
formulated ‘Board Diversity and Remuneration 
Policy’ which is available on the Company’s 
weblink at https://www.suzlon.com/NewPdf/
Shareholders_Information/Corporate_
Governance_Policies/2022-23/Policy_Board-
Diversity--Remuneration1.pdf.
e.	
Remuneration of the Executive Directors – The remuneration paid to the Executive Directors during FY23 is 
as under:
(₹ in Crore)
Name of Executive 
Director
Salary
Retirement 
benefits
Gratuity
Bonus / 
Commission / 
Stock option
Total
Service Contract
Notice 
Period
Late Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti1
4.43
0.13
0.05
-
4.62
 -
-
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti2
4.74
0.22
0.08
-
5.05
Three years up to 
October 6, 2025
-
Mr. Girish R. Tanti3
-
-
-
-
-
Three years up to 
October 6, 2025
-
Please refer below notes:
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
133
1	
Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti passed away on October 1, 
2022. He was re-appointed as the Managing 
Director of the Company with effect from April 
1, 2022 for a further term of three years, i.e. 
up to March 31, 2025 at a remuneration of ₹ 
5 Crore p.a. plus incentives and perquisites. 
The remuneration paid during FY 23 is for the 
period from April 1, 2022 to October 1, 2022 
and includes payments towards variable pay 
forming part of remuneration.
2	
In 
terms 
of 
approval 
granted 
by 
the 
shareholders of the Company at the Twenty 
Seventh Annual General Meeting held on 
September 29, 2022, Mr. Vinod R. Tanti was 
re-appointed as the Wholetime Director and 
Chief Operating Officer of the Company with 
effect from October 1, 2022 for a further term 
of three years, i.e. up to September 30, 2025, 
at a remuneration of ₹ 3.20 Crore p.a. plus 
incentives and perquisites. However due to sad 
demise of Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti, the then Chairman 
and Managing Director of the Company, Mr. 
Vinod R. Tanti was appointed as the Managing 
Director of the Company with effect from 
October 7, 2022 for a term of three years, i.e. 
up to October 6, 2025, at a remuneration of 
₹ 5.00 Crore p.a. plus incentives and perquisites 
and approval of the shareholders was obtained 
by way of special resolution dated January 5, 
2023 in terms of the postal ballot initiated vide 
postal ballot notice dated December 5, 2022, 
the results of which were declared on January 
6, 2023. Accordingly the remuneration paid to 
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti during the period from April 
1, 2022 to October 6, 2022 was in the capacity 
as Wholetime Director and Chief Operating 
Officer in terms of the special resolution 
passed by the shareholders of the Company 
on September 29, 2022 and the remuneration 
paid during the period from October 7, 2022 
to March 31, 2023 was in the capacity as the 
Managing Director in terms of the special 
resolution passed by the shareholders of the 
Company on January 5, 2023.
3	
Mr. Girish R. Tanti has been appointed as the 
Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. October 7, 2022 
however without remuneration. He is entitled 
to sitting fees for attending the meetings of 
the Board of Directors / committees thereof, 
the details of which have been given below.
f.	
Remuneration of the Non-executive Directors – The Non-executive Directors are not paid any remuneration 
except sitting fees for attending the meetings of the Board and / or Committees thereof which is within the 
limits prescribed by the Act. The details of the sitting fees paid, stock options granted and securities held 
during FY23 are as under:
Name of the Director
Sitting fees
(₹ in Crore)
Stock 
options 
granted
Equity shares 
held as on 
March 31, 2023
Remarks
Mr. Girish R. Tanti
0.0720
-
100,019,000
Mr. Girish R. Tanti has been appointed 
as the Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. 
October 7, 2022 however without 
remuneration. He is entitled to sitting 
fees for attending the meetings of the 
Board of Directors / committees thereof
Mr. Marc Deseadeleer
0.0500
-
-
-
Mr. Per Hornung Pedersen
0.0740
-
-
-
Mr. Rakesh Sharma
0.0100
-
-
Ceased to be Nominee Director of 
State Bank of India w.e.f. June 8, 2022
Mr. Sameer Shah
0.0640
-
-
-
Mrs. Seemantinee Khot
0.0520
-
-
-
Mr. Gautam Doshi
0.0380
-
42,750
-
Mr. Hiten Timbadia
0.0500
-
278,000
-
Mr. Ajay Mathur
0.0300
-
-
Appointed as Nominee Director of REC 
Limited w.e.f. August 10, 2022. Sitting 
fees paid to REC Limited.
Mr. Pranav T. Tanti
0.0200
-
-
Appointed as Non-Executive Director 
w.e.f. October 7, 2022
g.	
Transactions with the Non-executive Directors – The Company does not have material pecuniary relationship 
or transactions with its Non-executive Directors except the payment of sitting fees for attending the meetings 
of the Board / Committees, as disclosed in this Report.
Annual Report 2022-23
134
h.	
Board evaluation – The annual evaluation is 
carried out through a questionnaire having 
qualitative 
parameters 
in 
terms 
of 
the 
provisions of the Act, Regulation 17 and 25 of 
the Listing Regulations and the ‘Board Diversity 
and Remuneration Policy’ of the Company. 
The performance of the individual directors 
(including the independent directors) is being 
evaluated on the basis of the criteria such as 
the composition, attendance, participation, 
quality and value of contributions, knowledge, 
skills, experience, etc.
3.4	 Securities Issue Committee
a.	
Composition – During FY 23 the Securities 
Issue Committee has been reconstituted w.e.f. 
October 7, 2022 by inducting Mr. Girish R. Tanti 
as a member in place of Late Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti 
and Mr. Vinod R. Tanti has been designated 
as the Chairman of the Committee. As on 
March 31, 2023 and as on date of this Report, 
the Securities Issue Committee comprises of 
two members both of whom are Executive 
Directors.
b.	
Meetings and attendance – During FY23, the 
Securities Issue Committee met eight times on 
May 24, 2022, September 6, 2022, September 
25, 2022, September 28, 2022, October 10, 
2022, October 31, 2022, February 24, 2023 
and March 29, 2023. The composition and 
attendance of the members is noted below:
Name of the 
member
Chairman / 
member
No. of meetings 
attended
Late Mr. Tulsi R. 
Tanti1
Chairman
4 (out of 4)
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti2
Chairman
8 (out of 8)
Mr. Girish R. Tanti3
Member
4 (out of 4)
	
	
1 Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti passed away on October 1, 2022 
and therefore ceased as Member.
	
	
2 Mr. Vinod R. Tanti was designated as the Chairman 
w.e.f. October 7, 2022.
	
	
3 Mr. Girish R. Tanti was inducted as Member w.e.f. 
October 7, 2022.
c.	
Terms of reference – The broad terms of 
reference of the Securities Issue Committee 
includes the following:
i.	
to create, offer, issue and allot such 
number of equity shares or equity 
linked instruments like warrants, global 
depository receipts (GDRs), american 
depository 
receipts 
(ADRs), 
foreign 
currency convertible bonds (FCCBs), 
fully convertible debentures or any other 
financial instruments (OFIs) convertible 
in to or linked to equity shares and / or 
debt securities or non-equity linked 
instruments 
like 
non-convertible 
debentures with or without warrants or 
any other instruments and / or combination 
of instruments with or without detachable 
warrants with a right exercisable by the 
warrant holders to convert or subscribe 
to the equity shares or otherwise, in 
registered or bearer form (hereinafter 
collectively referred to as the ‘Securities’) 
or any combination of Securities in 
one or more tranches, whether rupee 
denominated or denominated in foreign 
currency, in the course of international 
and / or domestic offering(s) in one or 
more foreign markets and / or domestic 
market, to any person / entities including 
foreign / resident investors, whether 
institutions, incorporated bodies, mutual 
funds and / or individuals or otherwise, 
foreign institutional investors, Promoters, 
Indian and / or multilateral financial 
institutions, mutual funds, non-resident 
Indians, employees of the Company and 
/ or any other categories of investors, 
whether they be holders of shares of the 
Company or not through public issue(s) 
by prospectus, rights issue(s), private 
placement(s) or a combination thereof 
at such time or times, at such price or 
prices, at a discount or premium to the 
market price or prices and on such terms 
and conditions including security, rate of 
interest, etc. as may be thought fit in its 
absolute discretion;
ii.	
to take initiatives for liability management 
including debt reduction initiatives;
iii.	
to allot equity shares of the Company 
from time to time including allotment 
pursuant to exercise of stock options 
and conversion of Foreign Currency 
Convertible Bonds;
iv.	
to do all such other acts, deeds, matters 
and things as may be incidental and 
ancillary to one or more of the above and / 
or to such other acts as already delegated 
and / or as may be delegated by the Board 
of Directors from time to time;
v.	
to 
sign 
deeds, 
documents, 
forms, 
letters and such other papers as may be 
necessary, desirable and expedient.
3.5	 ESOP Committee – During FY 23, the ESOP 
Committee was dissolved w.e.f. October 7, 2022 
and the powers of the ESOP Committee have been 
delegated to the Securities Issue Committee of the 
Board of Directors. No meeting of ESOP Committee 
was held during the period from April 1, 2022 to 
October 7, 2022.
3.6 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee 
– The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
Committee has been constituted as per the 
requirements of Section 135 of the Act.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
135
a.	
Composition – During FY 23, the CSR 
Committee has been reconstituted w.e.f. 
October 7, 2022 by inducting Mr. Vinod R. Tanti 
as the Chairman in place of Late Mr. Tulsi R. 
Tanti. As on March 31, 2023 and as on date of 
this Report, the CSR Committee comprises of 
three members out of whom two are Executive 
Directors and other member is a Non-executive 
Independent Director.
b.	
Meetings and attendance – During FY 23, 
the CSR Committee met once on August 10, 
2022. The composition and attendance of the 
members is noted below:
Name of the member
Chairman 
/ member
No. of 
meetings 
attended
Late Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti1
Chairman
1 (out of 1)
Mr. Girish R. Tanti
Member
1 (out of 1)
Mr. Per Hornung 
Pedersen
Member
1 (out of 1)
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti2
Chairman
0 (out of 0)
	
1 Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti passed away on October 1, 2022 
and therefore ceased as Member.
	
2 Mr. Vinod R. Tanti was inducted as the Chairman 
w.e.f. October 7, 2022. 
c.	
Terms of reference – The broad terms of 
reference of CSR Committee includes the 
following:
i.	
formulate and recommend to the Board, 
a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy 
which shall indicate the activities to be 
undertaken by the Company as specified 
in Schedule VII to the Companies Act, 
2013 as amended, read with Rules framed 
thereunder;
ii.	
recommend the amount of expenditure to 
be incurred on such activities; and
iii.	
monitor 
the 
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility Policy of the Company 
from time to time.
d.	
CSR Policy – In accordance with Section 135 
of the Act, the Company has formulated a CSR 
Policy which is available on the Company’s 
weblink at https://www.suzlon.com/NewPdf/
Shareholders_Information/Corporate_
Governance_Policies/2022-23/CSR-policy.
pdf.The Annual Report on CSR Activities as 
required to be given under Section 135 of the 
Act and Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 (as 
amended) has been provided in an Annexure 
which forms part of the Directors’ Report.
3.7	 Risk 
Management 
Committee 
– 
The 
Risk 
Management Committee of the Board has been 
constituted as per the requirements of Regulation 
21 of the Listing Regulations.
a.	
Composition – During FY 23, the Risk 
Management 
Committee 
has 
been 
reconstituted w.e.f. October 7, 2022 by 
inducting Mr. Girish R. Tanti as the member in 
place of Late Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti. Post March 31, 
2023, the Risk Management Committee was 
further reconstituted w.e.f. April 5, 2023 due 
to change in Chief Executive Officer of the 
Company and accordingly Mr. J.P. Chalasani 
has been inducted as a member in place of Mr. 
Ashwani Kumar. As on March 31, 2023, and as 
on date of this Report, the Risk Management 
Committee comprises of four members out of 
whom two are Executive Directors including 
the Chairman, one is an Independent Director 
and the fourth member is the Group Chief 
Executive Officer. The composition of the 
Risk Management Committee is in compliance 
with the requirements of Regulation 21 of the 
Listing Regulations as on March 31, 2023 and 
as on date of this Report.
b.	
Meetings and attendance – During FY23, the 
Risk Management Committee met twice on 
May 6, 2022 and October 21, 2022. The gap 
between two meetings of the Risk Management 
Committee did not exceed one hundred and 
eighty days. The composition and attendance 
of the members is noted below:
Name of the member
Chairman 
/ member
No. of 
meetings 
attended
Late Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti1
Chairman
1 (out of 1)
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti2
Chairman
2 (out of 2)
Mr. Sameer Shah
Member
2 (out of 2)
Mr. Ashwani Kumar3
Member
2 (out of 2)
Mr. Girish R. Tanti4
Member
1 (out of 1)
Mr. J. P. Chalasani5
Member
N.A.
	
1 Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti passed away on October 1, 2022 
and therefore ceased as Member.
	
2 Mr. Vinod R. Tanti was designated as the Chairman 
w.e.f. October 7, 2022.
	
3 Mr. Ashwani Kumar ceased to be the Member w.e.f. 
April 5, 2023.
	
4 Mr. Girish R. Tanti was inducted as the Member 
w.e.f. October 7, 2022.
	
5 Mr. J. P. Chalasani was inducted as the Member 
w.e.f. April 5, 2023.
c.	
Terms of reference – The broad terms of 
reference of Risk Management Committee 
includes the following:
i.	
To formulate a detailed risk management 
policy which shall include (a) a framework 
for identification of internal and external 
risks specifically faced by the listed 
entity, in particular including financial, 
operational, 
sectoral, 
sustainability 
Annual Report 2022-23
136
(particularly, 
ESG 
related 
risks), 
information, cyber security risks or 
any other risk as may be determined 
by the Committee; (b) measures for 
risk mitigation including systems and 
processes for internal control of identified 
risks (c) business continuity plan.
ii.	
To ensure that appropriate methodology, 
processes and systems are in place to 
monitor and evaluate risks associated 
with the business of the Company;
iii.	
To monitor and oversee implementation 
of the risk management policy, including 
evaluating 
the 
adequacy 
of 
risk 
management systems;
iv.	
To 
periodically 
review 
the 
risk 
management policy, at least once in 
two years, including by considering the 
changing industry dynamics and evolving 
complexity;
v.	
To keep the board of directors informed 
about the nature and content of its 
discussions, 
recommendations 
and 
actions to be taken;
vi.	
The appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if 
any) shall be subject to review by the Risk 
Management Committee;
vii.	 To deal with such other functions, 
inter alia including cyber security and 
monitoring and reviewing of the risk 
management plan and would have such 
role and responsibilities as may be 
required and stipulated in terms of the 
Listing Regulations / Companies Act, as 
amended and / or as may be specified by 
the Board of Directors from time to time.
d.	
Risk Management Policy – In accordance with 
Regulation 21 read with Schedule II Part D of the 
Listing Regulations, the Company has formulated 
the Risk Management Policy which is available 
on the Company’s weblink at https://www.
suzlon.com/NewPdf/Shareholders_Information/
Corporate_Governance_Policies/2022-23/Risk_
Management_Policy.pdf.
e.	
Risk 
assessment 
and 
minimisation 
procedures – The risk assessment and 
minimisation procedures are in place and the 
Audit Committee of the Board and the Board 
are regularly informed about the business 
risks and the steps taken to mitigate the 
same. The Company’s risk management and 
mitigation strategy has been discussed in the 
Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
forming part of this Annual Report.
3.8	 Senior Management – As on date of this Report, following are the Senior Managerial Personnel of the 
Company.
Sr No.
Name of the Senior Managerial Personnel (SMPs)
Designation
A.
Key Managerial Personnel
1.
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
2.
Mr. Girish R. Tanti
Executive Vice Chairman
3.
Mr. J. P. Chalasani
Group Chief Executive Officer
4.
Mr. Himanshu Mody
Group Chief Financial Officer
5.
Mrs. Geetanjali S. Vaidya
Company Secretary
B.
Senior Managerial Personnel (other than KMPs)
6.
Mr. Rajendra Mehta
Group Chief Human Resource Officer
7.
Mr. Ishwar Chand Mangal
Chief Executive Officer (Global OMS)
8.
Mr. Venkat Subramaniam
Chief Executive Officer (SE Forge)
9.
Mr. Bernhard Telgmann
Chief Technology Officer
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
137
4	
General body meetings
4.1	 Details of last three annual general meetings (“AGM”) – The details of the last three AGMs of the Company are 
noted below: 
Financial Year  
and AGM no.
Venue
Day, date and 
time
Special resolutions passed
FY20
Twenty Fifth AGM
Meeting held through 
Video Conferencing 
/ Other Audio Visual 
Means (VC / OAVM)
Friday, 
September 25, 
2020 at 11.00 
a.m.
•	
To re-appoint Mr. Per Hornung Pedersen as an 
Independent Director for a second term of five years
•	
To approve payment of remuneration to Mr. Vinod 
R. Tanti, the Wholetime Director & Chief Operating 
Officer of the Company
•	
To amend the Articles of Association of the Company
•	
To issue redeemable non-convertible debentures on 
private placement basis
FY21
Twenty Sixth AGM
Meeting held through 
Video Conferencing 
/ Other Audio Visual 
Means (VC / OAVM)
Friday, 
September 24, 
2021 at 11.00 
a.m.
•	
To vary the terms of convertible warrants issued by 
the Company to the lenders on preferential basis 
pursuant to restructuring of debt of the Company and 
its certain identified subsidiaries
FY22
Twenty Seventh 
AGM
Meeting held through 
Video Conferencing 
/ Other Audio Visual 
Means (VC / OAVM)
Thursday, 
September 29, 
2022 at 11.00 
a.m.
•	
To approve re-appointment of Mr. Vinod R. Tanti as the 
Wholetime Director & Chief Operating Officer of the 
Company
•	
To amend the Articles of Association of the Company
•	
To approve implementation of the ‘Employee Stock 
Option Plan 2022’
•	
To approve grant of employee stock options under 
the ‘Employee Stock Option Plan 2022’ to the eligible 
employees of the Company’s Subsidiary Companies
4.2	 Details of Extra Ordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) – No Extra Ordinary General Meeting was held during the year 
under review.
4.3	 Details of resolutions passed by way of postal ballot – None of the resolutions proposed for ensuing Annual 
General Meeting need to be passed through postal ballot.
	
During FY 23, the Company had conducted postal ballot process in terms of the Postal Ballot Notice dated 
December 5, 2022 the results of which were declared on January 6, 2023. Mr. DSM Ram, (Membership No.A14939 
and Certificate of Practice No.4239) proprietor of DSMR & Associates, Company Secretaries, Hyderabad, acted as 
the Scrutinizer for conducting the Postal Ballot process in a fair and transparent manner. The agenda items passed 
along with the summary of Voting Results as per the Scrutinizer’s Report are as under:
Sr. 
No.
Agenda Items of the Postal Ballot Notice 
dated December 5, 2022
Resolution 
required 
(Ordinary / 
Special)
Paid-up value 
of No. of votes 
in favour
Paid-up value 
of No. of votes 
against
Result
1.
To approve appointment of Mr. Pranav T. 
Tanti as Director of the Company
Ordinary 
Resolution
7,431,531,123
 (94.72%)
413,931,328
(5.28%)
Passed with 
requisite majority
2.
To approve appointment of Mr. Vinod R. Tanti 
as the Managing Director of the Company
Special 
Resolution
6,613,620,431
(84.30%)
1,231,844,671
(15.70%)
Passed with 
requisite majority
3.
To approve appointment of Mr. Girish R. Tanti 
as the Executive Director of the Company 
without remuneration
Ordinary 
Resolution
6,649,773,209
(84.76%)
1,195,598,833 
(15.24%)
Passed with 
requisite majority
	
All the aforesaid resolutions are deemed to be passed on the last date specified for e-voting, i.e. January 5, 2023, in 
terms of the Secretarial Standards on General Meeting (SS2) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
	
Further, the Company had conducted postal ballot process in terms of the Postal Ballot Notice dated March 27, 
2023 the results of which were declared on April 29, 2023. Mr. DSM Ram, (Membership No.A14939 and Certificate 
of Practice No.4239) proprietor of DSMR & Associates, Company Secretaries, Hyderabad, acted as the Scrutinizer 
for conducting the Postal Ballot process in a fair and transparent manner. The agenda item passed along with the 
summary of Voting Results as per the Scrutinizer’s Report is as under:
Annual Report 2022-23
138
	
The aforesaid resolution is deemed to be passed 
on the last date specified for e-voting, i.e. April 
28, 2023, in terms of the Secretarial Standards on 
General Meeting (SS2) issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India.
4.4	 Procedure of Postal Ballot - The Postal Ballot 
process was conducted in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 110 of the Act read with 
Rule 22 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 and applicable circulars 
issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
5	
Disclosures –
5.1	 Means of communication
a.	
Quarterly / annual results – The quarterly / 
annual results and notices as required under 
Regulation 33 of the Listing Regulations are 
ordinarily published in the ‘The Financial 
Express’ (English and Gujarati editions).
b.	
Posting of information on the website of the 
Company – The annual / quarterly results of 
the Company, shareholding pattern, the official 
news releases, notifications to the stock 
exchanges and the presentations made by the 
Company to analysts and institutional investors 
are regularly posted on its website (www.
suzlon.com). The Company is in compliance of 
Regulation 46 of the Listing Regulations.
5.2	 Disclosure on materially significant related party 
transactions and RPT Policy –
a.	
The Company has formulated ‘Policy on 
materiality of related party transactions and 
dealing with related party transactions’ (“RPT 
Policy”) which is available on the Company’s 
weblink at https://www.suzlon.com/NewPdf/
Shareholders_Information/Corporate_
Governance_Policies/2022-23/Policy_Related-
Party.pdf.
b.	
The Company has entered into various 
transactions with related parties as defined 
under Section 2(76) of the Act in the ordinary 
course of business and on arm’s length basis; in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act read 
with the Rules made thereunder, Regulation 
23 of the Listing Regulations and the ‘Policy on 
materiality of related party transactions and 
dealing with related party transactions’.
5.3	 Details of non-compliance with regard to capital 
market – There were no penalties imposed or 
strictures passed on the Company by the stock 
exchanges, SEBI or any other statutory authority 
on any matter related to the capital markets, during 
last three years except the following:
a.	
Each of the National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited and BSE Limited have levied a fine of 
₹ 2,000/- per day for the period from October 
7, 2022 till December 2, 2022, i.e. for 57 days, 
aggregating to ₹ 1,14,000/- plus applicable 
GST of ₹ 20,502/- for non-compliance with the 
requirements of Regulation 19(1) of the Listing 
Regulations pertaining to the composition of 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
of the Board of Directors during the period from 
October 7, 2022 till December 2,2022. The 
Company has rectified the non-compliance by 
inducting Mr. Pranav T. Tanti, Non-Executive 
Director, in place of Mr. Girish R. Tanti, the 
Executive Vice Chairman. The fine imposed 
by both the stock exchanges has been paid 
within stipulated time.
b.	
In March 2021, SEBI has appointed the Forensic 
Auditor to carry out forensic audit with respect 
to the financial statements of the Company. The 
Company has submitted the required details to 
the Forensic Auditor from time to time.
c.	
SEBI, by an Adjudication Order dated April 20, 
2018 had imposed a monetary penalty of a 
total sum of ₹ 1.10 Crore on the Company and 
its the then Compliance Officer for alleged 
non-reporting of certain events in the past. 
SAT vide its order dated May 3, 2021 had, while 
confirming the order of the SEBI with regard to 
the penalty imposed upon the Company to the 
extent of ₹ 5 Lakh and imposition of ₹ 5 Lakh 
penalty upon the Company and the Compliance 
Officer, set aside the imposition of the penalty 
of ₹ 1 Crore upon the Company. The Company 
had duly complied with the said order of SAT 
and paid the requisite penalty of ₹ 10 Lakh on 
May 28, 2021. Against the SAT order, SEBI has 
filed an appeal with the Honourable Supreme 
Court of India which is pending before the 
Honourable Supreme Court of India.
5.4	 Establishment of Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower 
Policy – In terms of Regulation 22 of the Listing 
Regulations and the Act, the Company has Whistle 
Blower Policy and Vigil Mechanism in place, which 
is available on the Company’s weblink https://www.
suzlon.com/NewPdf/Shareholders_Information/
Corporate_Governance_Policies/2022-23/Policy_
Whistle-Blower.pdf. The employees, vendors and 
customers are free to express their concerns 
Sr. 
No.
Agenda Item of the Postal Ballot Notice 
dated March 27, 2023
Resolution 
required (Ordinary 
/ Special)
Paid-up value 
of No. of votes 
in favour
Paid-up value 
of No. of votes 
against
Result
1.
To appoint Mr. Gautam Doshi as an 
Independent Director of the Company for a 
second term of three years
Special Resolution
7,925,041,705
 (98.82%)
94,979,094
(1.18%)
Passed with 
requisite 
majority.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
139
through e-mail, telephone, fax or any other method 
to the persons as mentioned in the Whistle Blower 
Policy. No personnel have been denied access to 
the Audit Committee. With a view to support its 
corporate governance philosophy, the Company 
has established Risk and Misconduct Management 
Unit which assesses, evaluates, strengthens and 
institutionalises integrity as a value, supports 
ethical business practices and formalises good 
corporate governance processes.
5.5	 Details 
of 
compliance 
with 
mandatory 
requirements and adoption of non-mandatory 
requirements of the Listing Regulations with the 
stock exchanges –
a.	
Mandatory requirements – As on March 31, 
2023, the Company has complied with all the 
mandatory requirements as mandated under 
Regulations 17 to 27 (except as disclosed 
under point no 5.3(a) above) and clauses (b) 
to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 
of the Listing Regulations. A certificate from 
the statutory auditors of the Company to 
this effect has been included in this Annual 
Report. The Company has also complied with 
the disclosure requirements specified in sub-
paras (2) to (10) of Part C of Schedule V of the 
Listing Regulations.
b.	
Non-mandatory requirements – The status 
of compliance in respect of non-mandatory 
requirements of Corporate Governance in 
terms of Regulation 27 and para (12) of Part C 
of Schedule V read with Part E of Schedule II is 
as under:
i.	
Modified opinion(s) in audit report - The 
Auditors’ opinion on quarterly financial 
results and year to date results of the 
Company (standalone and consolidated) 
is unmodified;
ii.	
Separate posts of the Chairperson and the 
Managing Director or the Chief Executive 
Officer – As on March 31, 2023, Mr. Vinod 
R. Tanti was the Chairman and Managing 
Director of the Company and Mr. Ashwani 
Kumar was the Group Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company. Post March 31, 
2023, Mr. J.P. Chalasani was appointed 
as the Group Chief Executive Officer of 
the Company w.e.f. April 5, 2023.
5.6	 Subsidiary Companies and Policy on Material 
Subsidiary – The requirements with respect to the 
subsidiary companies in terms of Regulation 24 of 
the Listing Regulations have been complied with. 
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of 
the Company has approved the ‘Policy on Material 
Subsidiary’ which is available on the Company’s 
weblink 
at 
https://www.suzlon.com/NewPdf/
Shareholders_Information/Corporate_Governance_
Policies/2022-23/Policy_Material-Subsidiary.pdf.
	
During FY 23, the Company had 3 material 
subsidiaries, the details of which are given below:
5.7	 Disclosure of commodity price risks, commodity 
hedging activities or foreign exchange risk – The 
details have been disclosed in the Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report forming part of this 
Annual Report.
5.8	 Proceeds from public issues, rights issues, 
preferential issues, etc. – During FY 23, on October 
31, 2022 the Company has allotted 2,40,00,00,000 
partly paid-up equity shares having a face value 
of ₹ 2.00 each with ₹ 1.00 paid-up aggregating to 
₹ 600 Crore at an issue price of ₹ 5.00 per equity 
share, i.e. at a premium of ₹ 3.00 per equity share, 
on a rights basis to the existing equity shareholders 
of the Company in the ratio of five equity shares for 
every twenty-one fully paid-up equity shares held by 
the existing equity shareholders on the record date 
of October 4, 2022. The applicants were required to 
pay ₹ 2.50 per equity share on application (of which 
₹ 1.00 per equity share being adjusted towards face 
value and ₹ 1.50 per equity share being adjusted 
towards securities premium) and the balance ₹ 2.50 
was payable on one or more subsequent calls.
	
Subsequently, the Securities Issue Committee of the 
Board of Directors of the Company, on February 24, 
2023, approved making of the First and Final Call of 
₹ 2.50 per partly paid-up equity share (of which ₹ 1.00 
per equity share being adjusted towards face value 
and ₹ 1.50 per equity share being adjusted towards 
securities premium) on outstanding 2,400,000,000 
partly paid-up equity shares. March 2, 2023 was fixed 
as the record date for the purpose of determining 
the holders of partly paid-up equity shares to whom 
the call notice was sent for payment of the First and 
Final Call. Pursuant to the same and up to the date 
of this Report, on receipt of requisite call money, the 
Securities Issue Committee has approved conversion 
of 2,35,18,63,294 partly paid-up equity shares 
bearing ISIN IN9040H01011 into fully paid-up equity 
Name of the 
Material Subsidiary
Date of 
Incorporation
Place of 
Incorporation
Name of the Statutory Auditor
Date of Appointment 
of Statutory Auditor
Suzlon Global 
Services Limited
May 25, 2004
Ahmedabad
M/s. Walker Chandiok & Co. LLP (Firm 
Registration No.001076N/N500013)
November 18, 2022
SE Forge Limited
June 26, 2006
Ahmedabad
M/s. Walker Chandiok & Co. LLP (Firm 
Registration No.001076N/N500013)
September 22, 2022
Suzlon Gujarat Wind 
Park Limited
July 5, 2004
Ahmedabad
M/s. Walker Chandiok & Co. LLP (Firm 
Registration No.001076N/N500013)
November 18, 2022.
Annual Report 2022-23
140
shares bearing ISIN INE040H01021 aggregating to 
₹ 587.97 Crore. As on date of this Report, the call 
money remains unpaid on 4,81,36,706 partly paid-up 
equity shares aggregating to ₹ 12.03 Crore.
	
The proceeds of the Right Issue have been utilised 
towards part repayment / pre-payment of a portion 
of certain outstanding borrowings availed by the 
Company and its subsidiaries, general corporate 
purpose and the issue expenses, which utilisation is 
in lines with the objects of the issue as stated in the 
Letter of Offer dated September 28, 2022 read with 
addendum dated October 10, 2022.
5.9	 Certificate from a practicing company secretary 
– Mr. Shailesh Indapurkar, a company secretary in 
practice (M. No.17306; CP No.5701), has issued a 
certificate that none of the Directors on the Board 
of the Company have been debarred or disqualified 
from being appointed or continuing as directors of 
the companies by the SEBI / Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs or any such statutory authority.
5.10	Where 
the 
Board 
has 
not 
accepted 
any 
recommendation of any committee of the Board 
which is mandatorily required, in the financial 
year, the same to be disclosed along with reasons 
thereof – During FY 23, there has been no instance 
where the Board of Directors had not accepted any 
recommendation of any of its committees.
5.11	 Total fees for all the services paid by the listed 
entity and its subsidiaries, on consolidated 
basis to the statutory auditor and all entities in 
the network firm / network entity of which the 
statutory auditor is a part, is given below – Total 
fees for all the services paid by the Company and its 
subsidiaries, on consolidated basis to the statutory 
auditors is as below:
Deloittee Haskins & Sells LLP (Statutory 
Auditors upto September 29, 2022)
₹ 1.51 
Crore
Walker Chandiok & Co LLP (appointed as 
Statutory Auditors w.e.f. September 29, 
2022)
₹ 0.86 
Crore
5.12	 Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal), Act, 2013 – The details are as 
under:
Particulars
No. of 
cases
No. of complaints filed during FY23
1
No. of complaints disposed of during FY23
1
No. of complaints pending as on end of FY23
Nil
5.13	Disclosures with respect to loans and advance 
to entities in which directors are interested – 
The details have been provided in an Annexure to 
Directors’ Report forming part of this Annual Report 
being ‘Disclosures as required in terms of Para A of 
Schedule V to the Listing Regulations'.
5.14	Management Discussion and Analysis Report – 
The Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
on the operations and financial position of the 
Company has been provided in a separate section 
which forms part of this Annual Report.
5.15	Profile of Directors seeking appointment / re-
appointment – Profile of the Directors seeking 
appointment / re-appointment as required to be 
given in terms of Regulation 36 of the Listing 
Regulations forms part of the Notice convening the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting of the Company.
5.16	Certification from Group Chief Executive Officer 
and Group Chief Financial Officer – The requisite 
certificate required to be given under Regulation 
17(8) read with Part B of Schedule II of the Listing 
Regulations was placed before the Board of 
Directors of the Company at its meeting held for 
approval of the financial statements for the year 
under review.
5.17	 Payment 
of 
fees 
to 
stock 
exchanges 
/ 
depositories – The Company has paid listing fees 
to the stock exchanges and annual custodial fees 
to the Depositories for FY24 in terms of the Listing 
Regulations. The listing fees to the stock exchanges 
and annual custodial fees to the Depositories for 
FY23 were also paid within the prescribed time.
5.18	Details of unclaimed shares in terms of Schedule 
V(F) of the Listing Regulations - In terms of Part F 
of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations, the details 
of equity shares allotted pursuant to the Initial 
Public Offering (IPO), which are unclaimed and are 
lying in demat suspense account, are given below:
Particulars
No. of Cases
No. of shares
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying at the beginning of FY22, i.e. as on April 1, 2022
112
9,800
Number of shareholders who approached to Listed entity / Registrar for 
transfer of shares from suspense account during FY23
-
-
Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from suspense 
account during FY23
-
-
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying at the end of FY23 i.e. as on March 31, 2023
112
9,800
The voting rights on these shares transferred to suspense account shall remain frozen till the rightful owners of such 
shares claim the shares.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
141
6	
General shareholder information
6.1
Annual General Meeting
: Twenty Eighth Annual General Meeting
Day and date
: Wednesday, September 27, 2023
Time
: 11.00 a.m. (IST)
Venue
: Not applicable since the meeting is being held through Video 
Conferencing / Other Audio Visual Means (VC / OAVM)
Book Closure date
: Thursday, September 21, 2023 to Wednesday, September 27, 2023 
(both days inclusive)
6.2
Financial calendar for FY 24
(tentative schedule)
Financial year
: April 1 to March 31
Board meetings for approval of quarterly 
results:
1st quarter ended on June 30, 2023
: held on July 25, 2023 i.e. within forty five days from the close of quarter 
or such extended date as may be permitted by the Regulator
2nd quarter ended on September 30, 2023
: within forty five days from the close of quarter or such extended date as 
may be permitted by the Regulator
3rd quarter ended on December 31, 2023
: within forty five days from the close of quarter or such extended date as 
may be permitted by the Regulator
4th quarter ended on March 31, 2024 and 
annual results for FY 24 (audited)
: Within sixty days from the close of financial year or such extended date 
as may be permitted by the Regulator
Annual General Meeting for FY 24
: In accordance with Section 96 of the Act
6.3
Dividend payment date
: N.A.
6.4 	 Listing on stock exchanges and stock codes:
Securities
Name of stock exchanges on which listed
Stock codes
Equity shares
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE),
“Exchange Plaza”, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai-400051
SUZLON
BSE Limited (BSE),
P.J. Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai-400001
532667
6.5 International Securities Identification Number (ISIN):
Security
ISIN
Fully paid-up equity shares
INE040H01021
Partly paid-up equity shares (pursuant to Rights Issue)  
(suspended for trading on Stock Exchanges w.e.f. March 3, 2023).
IN9040H01011
	
During FY 23 and up to the date of this report, following ISIN have been extinguished / lapsed / cancelled:
	
Optionally Convertible Debentures (INE040H07028) – Extinguished pursuant to conversion of OCDs into equity 
shares on May 24, 2022
	
Warrants (INE040H13018) – Cancelled w.e.f. May 24, 2022
	
USD 35,931,200 Convertible Bonds due 2032 (XS2200565203) – Redeemed in full w.e.f. the Redemption Date i.e. 
May 2, 2023 and cancelled and delisted from Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited, 2, Shenton Way, Suite 
19-00, SGX Centre 1, Singapore, 068804
6.6	 Corporate Identification Number: L40100GJ1995PLC025447
Annual Report 2022-23
142
6.7 	 Market price data: Monthly high, low quotations and trading volumes of the Company’s equity shares during FY23 
at NSE and BSE are noted below:
Stock Exchange
NSE
BSE
Month
High (₹)
Low (₹)
No. of shares traded
High (₹)
Low (₹)
No. of shares traded
April-22
12.35
9.15
1,040,151,525
12.36
9.15
278,250,502
May-22
10.35
7.40
840,164,140
10.34
7.43
199,830,685
June-22
10.25
6.80
1,144,060,420
10.22
6.80
266,780,263
July-22
6.95
5.90
982,662,011
6.99
5.91
284,196,961
August-22
9.30
6.55
1,773,805,207
9.29
6.51
503,631,415
September-22
11.70
7.95
3,582,659,018
12.00
7.97
836,001,169
October-22
9.60
6.60
3,211,527,557
9.60
6.60
860,295,115
November-22
9.35
7.80
1,774,221,569
9.32
7.81
486,616,536
December-22
12.15
8.85
5,853,120,737
12.19
8.87
1,319,446,741
January-23
11.00
8.80
1,720,296,361
10.98
8.81
662,110,265
February-23
10.20
8.05
1,225,032,728
10.20
8.05
498,634,108
March-23
8.95
6.95
1,146,582,611
8.93
6.96
457,100,172
6.8 	 Performance of share price of the Company in comparison with broad-based indices:
	
a.	
Comparison of the Company’s share price with NSE Nifty
20,000
18,000
16,000
14,000
12,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0
15.00
13.00
11.00
9.00
7.00
5.00
3.00
1.00
0
April-22
Jun-22
Sep-22
Dec-22
Mar-23
Nifty
Share Price
Nifty (LHS)
Suzlon Share Price (RHS)
	
b.	
Comparison of the Company’s share price with BSE Sensex
70,000
60,000
50,000
40,000
30,000
20,000
10,000
0
14.00
12.00
10.00
8.00
6.00
4.00
2.00
0
April-22
Jun-22
Sep-22
Dec-22
Mar-23
Sensex
Share Price
Sensex (LHS)
Suzlon Share Price (RHS)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
143
	
c.	
Comparison of the Company’s share price with BSE capital goods index
40,000
35,000
30,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
14.00
12.00
10.00
8.00
6.00
4.00
2.00
0
April-22
Jun-22
Sep-22
Dec-22
Mar-23
Capital Goods
Share Price
Capital Goods Index (LHS)
Suzlon Share Price (RHS)
6.9	 Registrar and Share Transfer Agent: KFin Technologies Limited Unit: Suzlon Energy Limited, Selenium Tower B, Plot 
31 and 32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad-500032. Telangana; Tel: (+91 40) 67162222, 
Toll Free No. 1-800-309-4001; Website: www.kfintech.com Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com. Contact person: Mr. 
Anandan K., Senior Manager and Mr. Ganesh Chandra Patro, Asst. Vice President.
6.10	Share transfer system: The shares of the Company are compulsorily traded in dematerialised form. As mandated 
by SEBI, the shares of the Company can be transferred only in dematerialised form. The Company has delegated 
the power of share transfer to the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent.
	
All communications regarding change of address and change of mandate (if the shares are held in physical form) 
can be addressed to KFin Technologies Limited, Hyderabad, the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agent.
6.11 Distribution of shareholding as on March 31, 2023:
	
a.	
Distribution of shareholding as per nominal value of shares held as on March 31, 2023
	
	
i)	
Fully paid shares:
Category (Amount)
No. of 
shareholders
% to total 
shareholders
Nominal amount 
of shares held (₹)
% to total 
shares
1-5000
2,208,699
90.42
1,599,860,386
7.94
5001 - 10000
109,676
4.49
828,290,126
4.11
10001 - 20000
61,752
2.53
937,616,054
4.65
20001 - 30000
20,646
0.85
514,119,812
2.55
30001 - 40000
10,874
0.45
393,914,510
1.96
40001 - 50000
6,747
0.28
309,855,876
1.54
50001 - 100000
13,095
0.54
952,554,810
4.73
100001 and above
11,182
0.46
14,609,962,592
72.52
Total
2,442,671
100.00
20,146,174,166
100.00
	
	
ii)	
Partly paid shares:
Category (Amount)
No. of 
shareholders
% to total 
shareholders
Nominal amount 
of shares held (₹)
% to total 
shares
1-5000
1,31,952
80.09
161,313,420
3.36
5001 - 10000
13,977
8.48
107,491,324
2.24
10001 - 20000
8,503
5.16
129,882,018
2.71
20001 - 30000
3,050
1.85
76,096,730
1.59
30001 - 40000
1,669
1.01
60,825,354
1.27
40001 - 50000
1,236
0.75
57,486,376
1.20
50001 - 100000
2,107
1.28
155,339,266
3.24
100001 and above
2,266
1.38
4,051,565,512
84.41
Total
164,760
100.00
4,800,000,000
100.00
Annual Report 2022-23
144
	
b.	
Shareholding pattern as on March 31, 2023
Category of shareholders
No. of shares of 
₹ 2 each
% of total shares
Promoters / promoter group
1,808,685,603
14.50
Foreign portfolio investors/ foreign institutional investors/ foreign 
corporate bodies/foreign bank
1,491,461,151
11.96
Non-resident Indians / foreign nationals
176,971,842
1.42
Mutual funds / financial institutions / NBFCs / insurance companies / banks 
/ QIBs
693,299,528
5.56
Private corporate bodies / trusts / clearing members
2,264,604,273
18.15
Resident Indians / HUFs
6,038,064,686
48.41
GDRs
0
0.00
Total
12,473,087,083
100.00
6.12	Dematerialisation of shares and liquidity: The equity shares of the Company are compulsorily traded in 
dematerialised form and are available for trading under National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL). The International Security Identification Number (ISIN) of the Company 
under Depository System for fully paid shares is INE040H01021 and for partly paid shares is IN9040H01011. Number 
of shares held in dematerialised and physical mode as on March 31, 2023 are noted below:
Particulars
No. of shares of 
₹ 2 each
% of total shares
Shares held in dematerialised form with NSDL
9,173,704,429
73.55
Shares held in dematerialised form with CDSL
3,299,284,944
26.45
Shares held in physical form
97,710
0.00
Total
12,473,087,083
100.00
6.13	 Outstanding GDRs or any other convertible instruments, conversion date and likely impact on equity:
a. 
Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (FCCBs): The Company had restructured the outstanding FCCBs, and 
112,285 FCCBs due 2032 aggregating to USD 35,931,200 were issued by the Company on August 17, 2020 at 
a conversion price of ₹ 2.61. The details of outstanding FCCBs as on March 31, 2023 have been provided in 
the Directors’ Report forming part of this Annual Report. Post March 31, 2023, the Company has redeemed the 
entire outstanding FCCBs at their principal amount aggregating to USD 529,338.11 together with accrued but 
unpaid interest thereon up to the redemption date @ 1.25% p.a. amounting to USD 1,378.48 in accordance with 
terms of the FCCBs. Accordingly, the FCCBs have been cancelled and delisted from the Singapore Exchange 
Securities Trading Limited. Following the redemption, there are no outstanding FCCBs in issue.
b. 
Optionally Convertible Debentures (OCDs): Under the Debt Resolution Plan, the Company had, on June 27, 
2020, allotted on preferential basis 410,000 0.01% OCDs having a face value of ₹ 100,000/- each. During FY 23, 
the entire outstanding value of the OCDs being ₹ 4099.18 Crore has been converted into 571,428,572 equity 
shares of ₹ 2/- each on May 24, 2022.
c.	
Warrants: Under the Debt Resolution Plan, the Company had, on June 27, 2020, allotted on preferential basis, 
498,588,439 fully paid up Warrants having a face value of ₹ 2/- each, convertible in to 1 equity share of 
₹ 2/- each. During FY 23, these warrants stand cancelled w.e.f. May 24, 2022.
	
As on date of this Report, there are no outstanding convertible securities / American Depository Receipts / 
Global Depository Receipts of the Company.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
145
6.14	Factory Locations: 
Plot No.H-24 and H-25, M.G. Udyognagar Indl. Estate, Dabhel, 
Daman-396210
Nacelle Manufacturing unit, Plot No.77, 13, Opp. GDDIC, 
Vanakbara Road, Village Malala, Diu-362520
Mold Manufacturing unit, Plot No.306/1 and 3, Bhimpore, Nani 
Daman, Panchal Industrial Estate, Daman-396210
Nacelle Cover Unit, Survey No.86/3 and 4, 87/1-3 and 4, 
88/1, 2 and 3, 89/1 and 2, Kadaiya Road, Daman-396210
Nacelle WTG unit, Survey No.42/2 and 3, 54, 1 to 8, Near 
Check Post, Village: Dunetha, Daman Bhenslore Road, Nani 
Daman, Daman-396210
Control Panel Unit Building, Plot No.A/4, OIDC, 
M.G.Udhyog Nagar, Dabhel, Nani Daman, Daman-396210
Manufacturing facility for WTG, Nacelle and Rotor Blade, 
RS.No.9/1A, 9/1B, 9/3, 9/1C, 9/2, 10/1, 10/3, 58/1, 9/4A, 9/4B, 
57/1, 57/3, 58/2, 58/3, 58/5, 58/6, 57/4, 59, Thiruvandralkoil, 
Opp. Whirlpool India Ltd., Pondicherry – 605102
Block No. 93, Opp. Gayatri Petroleum, National Highway 
No.8, Village Vadsala-Varnama, Vadodara-391242
Rotor Blade Unit, Survey No.588, Village: Paddar, Tal:Bhuj, 
Dist: Kutch-370105
Rotor Blade Unit, Survey No.282, Chhadvel (Korde), 
Sakri, Dhule-424305
Rotor Blade Unit, Sr. No: 125, 150, 153, and 154, Village: Ipperu, 
Kuderu Mandal, Dist: Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh – 515711
Rotor Blade Unit, Khasra No. 165/317/566#, Village – 
Bhoo, Patwar Circle–Bhoo, Tehsil and District – Jaisalmer, 
Jaisalmer – 345001
Rotor Blade Unit, Plot # 3, Aspen Infrastructure Limited (SEZ), 
Village: Nadsalu, Padubidri Post, Tal. and Dist. Udupi-574111, 
Karnataka, India
Rotor Blade Unit, Survey No. 289/2,290/1/2,296,297, 
Patwari Halka No. 25, Village – Borali,Tehsil – Badnawar, 
Dist- Dhar, Madhya Pradesh 454660
Nacelle Unit, Plot # 7, Aspen Infrastructure Limited (SEZ), 
Village: Nadsalu, Padubidri Post, Tal. and Dist.: Udupi - 574 
111, Karnataka, India
Technical Service Centre - Plot No. H-24 and H-25, 
M.G. Udyognagar Indl. Estate, Dabhel, Daman – 396210
Tower Unit, Survey No. 367, Near Ankur Salt, NH&A, Village: 
Chopadva, Tal: Bhachau, Dist. Kutch, Gujarat- 370140
6.15 List of all credit ratings obtained by the Company along with any revisions thereto during the relevant 
financial year, for all debt instruments of such entity or any fixed deposit programme or any scheme or proposal 
of the Company involving mobilisation of funds, whether in India or abroad: 
	
a.	
CRISL has assigned its ratings to the debt facilities of the Company as under:
Total bank loan facilities 
rated
₹ 4,054 Crore
Long-term rating
CRISIL BBB-/ Watch Developing (Placed on ‘Rating Watch with Developing Implications’)
Short-term rating
CRISIL A3 /Watch Developing (continues on Watch Developing)
 
b. 
India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) has revised the Company’s Outlook to positive from Stable while 
affirming its Long-Term Issuer Rating at ‘IND BBB-’ as under:
Instrument Type
Maturity 
Date
Size of Issue
(billion)
Rating / Outlook
Rating Action
Term Loan
June 2030
` 31.67
WD
Withdrawn (paid in full)
Non-fund-based facilities
-
`13
IND BBB-/ Positive/ 
IND A3
Affirmed; Outlook revised to 
Positive from Stable
Term Loan
June 2030
`17 (reduced from 
` 30.03)
IND BBB-/ Positive
Affirmed; Outlook revised to 
Positive from Stable 
Proposed Non-fund-based 
facilities
-
` 10.5
IND BBB-/ Positive/ 
IND A3
Affirmed; Outlook revised to 
Positive from Stable 
6.16	Address for correspondence: Registered Office: “Suzlon”, 5, Shrimali Society, Near Shri Krishna Complex, 
Navrangpura, Ahmedabad-380009, Gujarat, India; Tel.: +91.79.6604 5000; Email: investors@suzlon.com; 
Website: www.suzlon.com.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place : Pune
Date : July 25, 2023
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
Annual Report 2022-23
146
DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF ETHICS 
May 23, 2023.
The Board of Directors of
Suzlon Energy Limited,
CIN: L40100GJ1995PLC025447
“Suzlon”, 5, Shrimali Society,
Near Shri Krishna Complex,
Navrangpura,
Ahmedabad-380009.
Dear Sirs,
Sub.: Declaration regarding compliance with the Code of Ethics of the Company.
Ref.: Regulation 34(3) read with Part D of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
I, J.P. Chalasani, the Group Chief Executive Officer of Suzlon Energy Limited, hereby declare that, as of March 31, 2023, 
the Board Members and Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Ethics laid down by 
the Company.
Thanking you,
Yours faithfully,
For Suzlon Energy Limited
-sd-
J.P. Chalasani,
Group Chief Executive Officer.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
147
Independent Auditor’s Certificate on Corporate Governance
To the Members of Suzlon Energy Limited
1.	
This certificate is issued in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 12 June 2023.
2.	
We have examined the compliance of conditions of corporate governance by Suzlon Energy Limited /(‘the Company’) 
for the year ended on 31 March 2023, as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2), 
and paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’).
Managements’ Responsibility
3.	
The compliance of conditions of corporate governance is the responsibility of the Management. This responsibility 
includes the designing, implementing and maintaining operating effectiveness of internal control to ensure 
compliance with the conditions of corporate governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations.
Auditor’s Responsibility
4.	
Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, our responsibility is to express a reasonable assurance in 
the form of an opinion as to whether the Company has complied with the conditions of corporate governance as 
stated in paragraph 2 above. Our responsibility is limited to examining the procedures and implementation thereof, 
adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance with the conditions of corporate governance. It is neither an 
audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
5.	
We have examined the relevant records of the Company in accordance with the applicable Generally Accepted 
Auditing Standards in India, the Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’), and Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes issued 
by the ICAI which requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
6.	
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality 
Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and 
Related Services Engagements.
Opinion
7.	
Based on the procedures performed by us and to the best of our information and according to the explanations 
provided to us, in our opinion, the Company has complied, in all material respects, with the conditions of corporate 
governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations during the year ended 31 March 2023.
8.	
We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency 
or effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Restriction on use
9.	
This certificate is issued solely for the purpose of complying with the aforesaid regulations and may not be suitable 
for any other purpose.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No. 001076N/N500013
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No. 101797
UDIN: 23101797BGXFCT7330
Place: Pune
Date: 25 July 2023
148
Annual Report 2022-23
Executive Summary
Business 
Responsibility 
and 
Sustainability 
Report
We are pleased to present our efforts towards 
sustainability as per the guidelines of BRSR 
(Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report).
At Suzlon, sustainability is ingrained in our DNA and 
practices. We take this commitment very seriously 
and are working consistently to reduce our own 
carbon footprint while helping customers in their 
net-zero journeys and taking ownership to address 
our business impacts.
We believe that ESG compliance is a proactive 
approach to sustainability, responsible business 
practices and a commitment to create long-term 
value for stakeholders. As a leading Renewable 
Energy group, we are mindful of the impact of our 
business operations on the environment, thereby 
making improvement on the pillars of ESG by 
balancing natural, social, human and financial 
resources. It is a continuous business practice that 
creates long-term value for our stakeholders.
At Suzlon our commitment to sustainability is core 
to our ethos. Our commitment to the National 
Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct’s nine 
principles is outlined in this Report.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
149
Respect the interests of and be responsive to 
all its stakeholders
The identification of Key Stakeholders is based on their significance and impact on 
the business.
The Stakeholder mapping involved categorising stakeholders based on their 
interests, power, and level of influence over the company’s activities and decisions.
Principle #1
Principle #3
Principle #2
Principle #4
Conduct and govern with integrity, and in a manner that is 
Ethical, Transparent and Accountable
64.55 % of employees received training on code of business conduct and ethics. 
2608 workers of value chain partners received training on prevention of sexual 
harassment at workplace. 
No disciplinary action against Directors/KMPs/Employees/Workers by any law 
enforcement agencies for charges of bribery/corruption.
Respect and promote the well-being of all employees, 
including those in value chains
All employees, value chain partners and community have access to medical 
care services through Suzlon doctors.
100% of our employees are covered under health, accident insurance and 
maternity, paternity, PF and gratuity benefits.
Provide goods and services in a manner that is 
sustainable and safe
Life cycle assessment conducted for all “A category” components directly 
manufactured at Suzlon.
Sensors installed to prevent bird collision with Wind Turbine Generator (WTG).
Annual Report 2022-23
76
150
Respect and promote human rights
Well-defined internal mechanisms in place for reporting human rights issues.
Robust mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in 
discrimination and harassment cases.
Principle #5
Principle #9
Principle #7
Principle #6
Principle #8
Engage with and provide value to the consumers in a 
responsible manner
Suzlon conducts electrical safety awareness programs for village communities 
in India where the wind turbine power transmission lines are present. 
Basic safety related signs and symbols are placed inside and outside on 
the WTG.
Manuals for safety, operation, maintenance, troubleshooting and service, 
with additional rules and information on health and safety when working in or 
around the WTG are provided to the customers.
Influencing public and regulatory policy, in a responsible 
and transparent manner
Associated with trade and industry chambers/associations to foster dialogue 
on industry growth drivers, innovation and shaping public policy.
Respect and make efforts to protect and restore 
the environment
Projects to reducing Green House Gas emission included innovations in Turbine 
design itself that increased gear box oil lifespan, reducing carbon emissions per 
wind turbine. 
The Waste to Wealth CSR initiative sought to evaluate the current waste and 
convert it into innovative products for the use by remote rural communities.
Promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Positively impacted 609 villages through CSR initiatives including villages 
from 2 aspirational districts. 
Robust community grievance mechanism.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
151
Annual Report 2022-23
152
Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”)
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
DETAILS OF THE LISTED ENTITY
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L40100GJ1995PLC025447
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
Suzlon Energy Limited (the “Company” or “SEL”)
3.
Year of incorporation
1995
4.
Registered office address
“Suzlon”, 5, Shrimali Society, Near Shri Krishna Complex, 
Navrangpura, Ahmedabad-380009, Gujarat, India
5.
Corporate office address
One Earth, Hadapsar, Pune-411028, Maharashtra, India
6.
E-mail
investors@suzlon.com
7.
Telephone
+91.79.6604 5000 / +91.20.6702 2000
8.
Website
www.suzlon.com
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023 (“FY23”)
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are 
listed
National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited
11.
Paid-up Capital as on March 31, 2023
₹ 2,454.40 Crores divided into 12,473,087,083 equity shares 
comprising of 12,070,909,026 fully paid-up equity shares 
having a face value of ₹ 2/- each bearing ISIN INE040H01021 
and 402,178,057 partly paid-up equity shares having a 
face value of ₹ 2/- each with ₹ 1/- paid-up bearing ISIN 
IN9040H01011
12.
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) 
of the person who may be contacted in case of any 
queries on the BRSR report
Dr. Jasmine Sofia Gogia, Head CSR, Sustainability and 
Occupational Health; Tel.: +91.20.6702 2000; email: 
csr@suzlon.com
13.
Reporting boundary
The disclosures (unless otherwise specified) made in 
this report are for Suzlon Energy Limited and its certain 
Subsidiaries namely Suzlon Global Services Limited 
(“SGSL”), Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited (“SGWPL”) and 
SE Forge Limited (“SE Forge”) collectively referred to as 
“Suzlon” or “Suzlon Group”.
Further, the term “workforce” wherever used in the report 
represents all employees of Suzlon Group and workers of 
value chain partners (“value chain workers”). It is hereby 
clarified that the Company does not have permanent workers.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORTING (“BRSR Report”)
for the financial year (“FY”) ended March 31, 2023
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
153
II.	
PRODUCTS / SERVICES
14.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
Company
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business 
Activity
% of Turnover of the 
respective entity
SEL
Manufacturing
(Electrical equipment, General Purpose and 
Special purpose Machinery & equipment, 
Transport equipment)
Manufacturing
(Repair & installation of machinery & 
equipment, motor vehicles)
Manufacture and sale of Wind 
Turbine Generators (“WTG”) 
and related components
95.80%
SGWPL
Real Estate
(Real estate activities with own or leased 
property)
Land Business
93.61%
SGSL
Professional, Scientific and Technical 
(Architecture, engineering activities, technical 
testing and analysis activities)
Operations & Maintenance 
Services (OMS) & Project 
Business
98.53%
SE Forge
Manufacturing
(Metal and metal products)
Forging and Foundry
100.00%
15.	 Products / Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
Sr. 
No.
Product / Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover 
contributed
A.
SEL - Manufacture and sale of Wind Turbine Generators  
(“WTG”) and related components
27101, 28110
95.80%
B.
SGWPL - Land Business
68100
93.61%
C.
SGSL -  
OMS  
Project Business
33121 
42201 and 42202 
76.91% 
21.62% 
D.
SE Forge - Forging and Foundry Business
25910, 24319
100.00%
III.	
OPERATIONS
16.	 Number of locations where plants and / or operations / offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
14
60
74
International
None
19
19
17.	 Markets served by the entity:
	
a.	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National 
(No. of States)
The Company along with its subsidiaries has 14 manufacturing locations, 4 R & D Centres, various 
site locations spread across in 9 States in India and offices spread across 11 States in India
International  
(No. of Countries)
The Company along with its subsidiaries operates in 17 countries across 6 continents
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity: 0.59%
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers: The types of customers served by the Company are Independent Power 
Producers (IPPs), Corporates, Public Sector Undertakings / Government / Quasi Government bodies and Retail 
investors.
Annual Report 2022-23
154
IV.	 EMPLOYEES
18.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year i.e. March 31, 2023:
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B) / (A)
No. (C)
% (C) / (A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
5,706
5,585
97.88%
121
2.12%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
Nil
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
3.
Total Employees (D + E)
5,706
5,585
97.88%
121
2.12%
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
5.
Other than Permanent (G)*
N.A.
6.
Total Workers (F + G)
	
*The workers of value chain partners have been involved in various programs conducted by Suzlon Group however the data 
for the total number of such value chain workers associated with the Suzlon Group has not been collected.
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers: 
Sr. 
No
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B) / (A)
No. (C)
% (C) / (A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
None (based on self-declaration)
3.
Total differently abled employees (D + E)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
5.
Other than permanent (G)
N.A.
6.
Total differently abled workers (F + G)
19.	 Participation / Inclusion / Representation of women:
Particulars
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
10
1
10.00%
Key Management Personnel
3
1
33.33%
20.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 years):
Particulars
FY 23
FY 22
FY 21
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
22.0%
23.9%
22.1%
18.2%
17.4%
18.2%
14.5%
14.2%
14.4%
Permanent Workers
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
155
V.	
HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (INCLUDING JOINT VENTURES)
21.	 a.	
Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the holding / 
subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint 
ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ subsidiary/ 
associate/ joint venture
% of shares held 
by listed entity 
(directly or 
indirectly)
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed entity? 
(Yes / No)
1.
SGWPL
Subsidiary of SGSL
100.00%
Yes
2.
SGSL
Subsidiary
100.00%
Yes
3.
SE Forge
Subsidiary
100.00%
Yes
	
•	
As on March 31, 2023, the Company has 34 subsidiaries, 1 joint venture and 5 associate companies in 
terms of the Companies Act, 2013 a list of which is given in Form No.AOC-1 forming part of the Annual 
Report.
	
•	
Other than subsidiaries mentioned above, no other subsidiaries / joint venture / associate companies 
participate in the Business Responsibility initiative of the Company.
VI.	 CSR DETAILS
22.	 (i)	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013, (ii) Turnover and (iii) Net 
worth:
Company
Applicability as per FY 23 financials
Turnover for 
FY 23
(₹ Crores)
Net Worth as on 
March 31, 2023
(₹ Crores)
For constitution 
of CSR committee
For CSR Spending
SEL
Yes
N.A.
3,538.14
1,396.09
SGWPL 
Yes
N.A.
61.85
(25.20)
SGSL
Yes
Yes
1,998.93
(175.03)
SE Forge
Yes
N.A.
471.79
175.89
VII.	 TRANSPARENCY AND DISCLOSURES COMPLIANCES
23.	 Complaints / Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC):
Stakeholder group 
from whom complaint 
is received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism 
in place 
(Yes/No)*
FY 23 
FY 22
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
39
16
41
27
Investors (other than 
shareholders)
Yes
0
0
0
0
Shareholders
Yes
677
2
#
6
0
Employees and workers
Yes
1
0
3
2
Pending 
complaints 
resolved 
during FY23
Customers
Yes
5,696
10
1,063
31
Value Chain Partners
Yes
0
0
0
0
Other (please specify)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
	
* If yes then provide web link for grievance redressal policy: Suzlon has grievance redressal mechanism in place however it is 
internal policy and not available in public domain
	
# During FY23 the Company had undertaken Right Issue pursuant to which there is significant increase in number of complaints 
pertaining to non-receipt of letter of offer, credit of shares, etc.
Annual Report 2022-23
156
24.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues:
Sr. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R / O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
1.
Governance
Risk
SDG No. 16: Peace, justice 
and strong institutions - For 
implementing our sustainability 
strategies 
and 
business 
management, a robust and 
effective governance structure 
is essential. 
Suzlon 
Energy 
Limited’s 
actions are governed by its 
principles that have been 
and will continue to be the 
Company’s guiding torch in 
the future too. 
Negative
2.
Environmental 
Protection
Opportunity
SDG 
No. 
12: 
Responsible 
Consumption and production
SDG No. 15: Life on Land - 
To preserve biodiversity in 
and around the area of our 
operations, 
minimize 
our 
overall environmental impacts 
w.r.t emissions, water and 
effluents, energy, waste, and 
natural resource consumption.
N.A.
Positive
3.
Synergy with 
Community
Opportunity
SDG No. 8: Decent work and 
economic growth
SDG No. 9: Industry, Innovation 
and Infrastructure - In order to 
create long-term relationships 
and 
maintain 
our 
social 
license to operate, synergistic 
engagement and investment 
in our local communities is 
essential.
N.A.
Positive
4.
Employee 
Safety and 
development
Risk
SDG No. 3: Good Health and 
Well-being
SDG No. 4: Quality Education
SDG No. 8: Decent work and 
economic growth - Investing 
in 
and 
developing 
our 
most treasured asset – our 
employees is essential. The 
corporate mission can only 
be achieved by safeguarding 
our employees and investing 
in attracting and retaining 
talent through training, career 
development 
opportunities, 
etc.
Upgrading 
Environment, 
Health and Safety (OHS), 
policy and practices.
Negative
5.
Uninterrupted 
supply of 
renewable 
energy and 
reducing GHG 
emissions
Opportunity
SDG No. 7: Affordable and 
Clean Energy
SDG No. 13: Climate Actions
Renewable energy is a low-
carbon power and plays a key 
role not only in combating 
global 
climate 
change 
challenge but contributes to 
country’s economic growth
N.A.
Positive
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
157
Sr. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R / O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
6.
Expansion 
and Growth
Opportunity
SDG No. 7: Affordable and 
Clean Energy
SDG No. 8: Decent work and 
economic 
growth 
Through 
enhancing our fund raising 
initiatives 
we 
anticipate 
a 
stable 
and 
sustainable 
business 
growth 
that 
will 
allow us to contribute to the 
social concerns and Govt. of 
India’s Atmanirbhar initiative, 
especially in energy landscape.
N.A.
Positive
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
Principles and Abbreviations:
Abbreviation
Particulars
P1
Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent and Accountable
P2
Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3
Principle 3: Business should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their 
value chains
P4
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive to all its stakeholders
P5
Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6
Principle 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
P7
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner 
that is responsible and transparent
P8
Principle 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9
Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1.	
a.	 Whether your entity’s policy / policies cover each 
principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/
No)
Yes, various policies implemented by the Company covers 
these principles. The Company is in process of formulating 
separate policy for each principle.
	
b.	 Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No) The Board has approved the implementation of some policies 
such as Code of ethics, ombudsman policy etc.
	
c.	 Web Link of the Policies, if available
The policies of the Company are available on the Company’s 
website www.suzlon.com.
2.	 Whether the entity has translated the policy into 
procedures? (Yes / No)
Yes
3.	 Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain 
partners? (Yes/No)
Yes
4.	 Name of the national and international codes / 
certifications / labels / standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship 
Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards 
(e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity 
and mapped to each principle.
These policies are generally compliant with respective 
principles of NGRBC which align with ILO, UNGC, OHAS, 
SDGs, ISOs etc. wherever applicable e.g. ISO 9001 (for Quality 
Management System), ISO 14001: 2015 (for Environmental 
Management System), ISO 45001 (for Health & Safety 
Management System)
5.	 Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity 
with defined timelines, if any.
None
Annual Report 2022-23
158
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
6.	 Performance 
of 
the 
entity 
against 
the 
specific 
commitments, goals and targets along-with reasons in 
case the same are not met.
N.A.
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets 
and achievements
	
Dear Stakeholders,
	
I am pleased to present Suzlon’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, which is a testimony to our 
commitment to sustainability and outlines our commitment to Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) 
principles.
	
Environmental Responsibility: At Suzlon we recognize the importance of minimizing our ecological footprint 
and contributing to a sustainable future. The primary challenge for wind turbine manufacturers the world over 
is mitigating the impact of wind turbine manufacturing and installation on local ecosystems. To address this, we 
have invested significantly in research and development to eliminate or minimize such impact e.g designing turbine 
models that reduce bird and bat collisions in 100% of our new turbines.
	
Social Responsibility: Our relationship with local communities has been a cornerstone of our success. The key 
challenge for social programs that we have been cognizant of has been ensuring long term positive impact on 
the communities in which we operate. We are actively engaged in capacity-building initiatives, such as providing 
livelihood opportunities to local residents. Our investments in community welfare programs, including education 
and healthcare, have directly benefited 609 villages reaching over 30 Lakh villagers and 10 Lakh households in 
underserved regions.
	
Governance: Transparent and ethical governance is the bedrock of our business operations. Maintaining a high 
standard of corporate governance across a diverse portfolio spread over hundreds of decentralized and often 
remote operating locations is always a critical challenge. We take pride that our Company has consistently and 
successfully maintained a robust governance framework, with all our projects adhering to stringent regulatory and 
compliance standards.
	
Looking ahead, we are committed to continual improvement to raise the bar even higher. Our focus includes a 
robust baseline assessment and work on reduction in overall carbon emissions through increased renewable energy 
generation and adoption, continued efforts to enhance local community engagement, and an increase in human 
rights trainings.
	
In conclusion, our Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report underscores our unwavering dedication to ESG 
principles and our mission to create lasting positive impact. We remain steadfast in our pursuit of sustainability and 
are confident that, together with your continued support, we can pave the way for a greener, more inclusive, and 
responsible future for generations to come.
8.	 Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility policy (ies).
	
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti, Chairman and Managing Director, oversees the implementation of BR initiatives in consultation with 
various functional heads including the CSR and Sustainability head.
9.	 Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director responsible for decision making on sustainability 
related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
	
Yes, Mr. Vinod R. Tanti, the Chairman and Managing Director is the Director responsible for decision making on sustainability 
related issues.
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was 
undertaken by Director / Committee 
of the Board / any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Any other – please 
specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against above policies 
and follow up action
Yes
Annual
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles and rectification of any 
non-compliances 
Yes
Annual
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
159
11.
Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the 
working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide  
name of the agency.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
No
12.	 If answers to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its 
business (Yes/No)
N.A.
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or / human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial 
year:
Segment
Total number of 
training and awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles 
covered under the  
training and its impact
% of persons in respective 
category covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of Directors (BoD)
Nil
N.A.
N.A.
Key Managerial Personnel 
(KMPs)
Nil
N.A.
N.A.
Employees other than BoD 
and KMPs
201
POSH and Integrity / 
Principle 1 & 5
64.55% 
Workers
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
2.	
Details of fines / penalties / punishment / award / compounding fees / settlement amount paid in 
proceedings (by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators / law enforcement agencies/ judicial 
institutions, in the financial year, in the following format:
Particulars
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory 
/ enforcement agencies 
/ judicial institutions
Amount
(In `)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Monetary
During the year under review, there were no such cases where monetary or non-monetary 
action has been initiated or settled by any regulator / enforcement agencies / judicial 
institutions.
Penalty / Fine
Settlement
Compounding fee
Non-Monetary
Imprisonment
Punishment
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal / Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed:
Case Details
Name of the regulatory / enforcement agencies / judicial 
institutions
N.A. since no such cases where monetary or non-monetary action has been initiated or settled by any regulator / 
enforcement agencies / judicial institutions.
Annual Report 2022-23
160
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if 
available, provide a web-link to the policy:
	
The Company has a Code of Ethics for Directors and Senior Management, which is available on the Company’s website 
at web link https://www.suzlon.com/NewPdf/Shareholders_Information/Corporate_Governance_Policies/2022-23/
Policy_Code-of-Ethics.pdf.
	
Further the Company has also formulated Corporate Governance Policy, encompassing the Code of Ethics to be 
followed by all stakeholders which is available on the Company’s website at web link https://www.suzlon.com/
NewPdf/Shareholders_Information/Corporate_Governance_Policies/2022-23/corporate_governance_policy.pdf.
	
The Code of Ethics amongst others states the Company’s approach of zero tolerance for corruption, bribery and 
unfair trade practices.
5.	
Number of Directors / KMPs / employees / workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery / corruption:
Particulars
FY 23
FY 22
Directors
None
None
KMPs
None
None
Employees
None
None
Workers
N.A.
N.A.
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
Particulars
FY 23
FY 22
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest 
of the Directors
None
N.A.
None
N.A.
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest 
of the KMPs
None
N.A.
None
N.A.
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulators / law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts 
of interest: 
	
N.A. since no corrective action taken by any regulator / law enforcement agency / judicial institution with regard to 
conflict of interest.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial 
year:
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered 
under the training
% age of value chain partners covered (by value of 
business done with such partners) under the awareness 
programmes
93
POSH Session/ Principle 5
2,608* workers working with various value chain partners 
were covered for awareness programmes
* The workers of value chain partners have been involved in various programs conducted by Suzlon Group however the data for 
the total number of such value chain workers associated with the Suzlon Group has not been collected and therefore % of value 
chain partners covered cannot be derived.
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid / manage conflict of interests involving members of the 
Board? (Yes / No) If yes, provide details of the same:
	
The Company has prescribed a code of ethics for its Directors and senior management. The code of ethics of 
the Company is available on Company’s web link at https://www.suzlon.com/NewPdf/Shareholders_Information/
Corporate_Governance_Policies/2022-23/Policy_Code-of-Ethics.pdf. The declaration from the Group Chief 
Executive Officer in terms of Regulation 34(3) read with Part D of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations, stating that 
as of March 31, 2023 the Board members and the senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the 
code of ethics laid down by the Company, has been included in the Annual Report.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
161
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by 
the entity, respectively:
Particulars
Business Units
FY 23 
(` in Crore)
FY 22 
(` in Crore)
Details of improvements in 
Environmental and social impacts
R & D
WTG Manufacturing
100.00%
100.00% The cost includes overall expenditure 
including 
the 
expenditure 
made 
on 
environmental and sustainable related 
projects 
like 
low-carbon 
transition, 
maximizing value from waste, energy 
efficiency, establishing circular economy 
and 
developing 
techno-economic 
solutions to optimize use of raw materials.
WTG Projects
Nil
Nil
WTG Operation & Maintenance
Nil
Nil
SE Forge
Nil
Nil
Capex
WTG Manufacturing
39.65%
75.91% Includes investments in CO2 and other 
air emission reduction solutions and 
improvement of safety and employee 
welfare initiatives.
WTG Projects
Nil
Nil  
WTG Operation & Maintenance
Nil
Nil  
SE Forge
Nil
Nil
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No): Yes	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? Within supply chain, all vendors and suppliers 
are screened and only those vendors and suppliers that are compliant with social and environmental standards 
such as ISO 14001, ISO 19001 OHSAS 18001, as may be applicable, are considered. The materials procured 
from 100% of class A suppliers has been sourced sustainably.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end 
of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste: Suzlon has 
a manual for the owner of the wind turbine that has a detailed process of end of life disposal and recycling. In 
accordance with the manual, the owner is required to follow the national environmental protection requirements 
regarding proper waste disposal and disposal of any packing material in accordance with regulations or separate 
it for recycling. Special care has to be taken regarding proper disposal of hazardous materials such as batteries, 
electric / electronic waste or of fluids such as oils, lubricants or coolants. Disposal of hazardous materials shall be 
as per applicable local and international rules and regulations to avoid environmental damage.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether 
the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution 
Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same: No, EPR is not applicable to Suzlon’s activities 
and hence this point is not applicable.
Annual Report 2022-23
162
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for 
manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following 
format:
NIC Code
Name of 
Product /
Service
% of total 
Turnover  
contributed
Boundary for which the 
Life Cycle Perspective / 
Assessment was conducted
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No) If yes, 
provide the web-
link
27101, 28110
Category A 
(blade, gear 
box, nacelle 
cover unit, 
transformer, 
generator, 
panel, tower)
90%
All “A category” components 
directly manufactured at 
Suzlon. Components from 
suppliers are excluded.
Design details not under 
Suzlon control and excluded, 
but the further influence on the 
WTG was taken into account 
as for example: noise emission, 
consumables like oil etc.
For initial model, 
the assessment got 
assured by external 
agency including the 
development of an 
evaluation matrix.
Further, for 
subsequent 
models, in-house 
assessments are 
carried out.
No
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or 
disposal of your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or 
through any other means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same:
Name of Product / Service
Description of the risk / concern
Action taken
Blade
Threat to birds and bats
Sensors to prevent bird collision
Wind Turbine Generator
Hazardous waste (oil, oil soaked cotton, 
waste and residue containing oil)
Increase life span of oil to reduce waste 
generation. Installation of oil retention 
systems
Noise due to turbine operation
Noise pollution
Identifying compliance options for target 
market Development of noise reduced mode
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for 
manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry):
Indicate input material
Recycled or reused input material 
to total material
FY 23
FY 22
N.A. since no recycled or reused input material is used in production.
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, 
recycled, and safely disposed, as per the following format:
Particulars
FY 23 (In Metric Tonnes)
FY 22 (In Metric Tonnes)
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
disposed
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
disposed
Plastic (Including Packaging) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)	 WTG Manufacturing
-
-
27.38
-
-
57.70
(b)	 WTG Projects
-
-
13.87
-
-
*
(c)	 WTG Operation & Maintenance
-
-
4.56
-
-
*
(d)	 SE Forge
-
-
0.01
-
-
*
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
163
Particulars
FY 23 (In Metric Tonnes)
FY 22 (In Metric Tonnes)
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
disposed
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
disposed
E-Waste
(a)	 WTG Manufacturing
-
-
0.30
-
-
- 
(b)	 WTG Projects
-
-
1.42
-
-
1.30
(c)	 WTG Operation & Maintenance
-
-
15.58
-
-
12.00
(d)	 SE Forge
-
-
0.001
-
-
-
Hazardous waste
Used Oil (Spent Oil) Liquid 
(a)	 WTG Manufacturing
-
-
6.42
-
-
4.73
(b)	 WTG Projects
-
-
0.75
-
-
* 
(c)	 WTG Operation & Maintenance
-
-
936.21
-
-
907.19
(d)	 SE Forge
-
-
0.95
-
-
* 
Discarded Containers / Barrels (Solid)
(a)	 WTG Manufacturing
-
-
1,977.70
-
-
1,678.26
(b)	 WTG Projects
-
-
0.48
-
-
*
(c)	 WTG Operation & Maintenance
-
-
30.84
-
-
*
(d)	 SE Forge
-
-
105.84
-
-
*
Waste & Residues Containing Oil (Liquid)
(a)	 WTG Manufacturing
-
-
2,126.00
-
-
2,654.60
(b)	 WTG Projects
-
-
0.53
-
-
0.09
(c)	 WTG Operation & Maintenance
-
-
336.00
-
-
324.00
(d)	 SE Forge
-
-
8.00
-
-
9.00
Other waste
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
* data collection initiated from FY 23
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product 
category:
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products sold 
in respective category
N.A.
Annual Report 2022-23
164
PRINCIPLE 3: Business should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their 
value chains
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Category
Total 
(A)
Health insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
Benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day care 
facilities
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
%(C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
No. (E)
% (E/A)
No. (F)
% (F/A)
PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
Male
5,585
5,585 100.00%
5,585 100.00%
N.A.
N.A.
5,585 100.00%
5,585 100.00%
Female
121
121 100.00%
121 100.00%
121 100.00%
N.A.
N.A.
121 100.00%
Total
5,706
5,706 100.00%
5,706 100.00%
121 100.00%
5,585 100.00%
5,706 100.00%
OTHER THAN PERMANENT EMPLOYEES 
Male
Female
N.A.
Total
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
% of workers covered by
Category
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
Benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day care 
facilities
No. (B)
% (B/A) No. (C)
%(C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
No. (E)
% (E/A) No. (F)
% (F/A)
PERMANENT WORKERS
Male
Female
N.A.
Total
OTHER THAN PERMANENT WORKERS 
Male
Female
N.A.
Total
2.	
Details of retirement benefits for current FY and previous FY:
Benefits
FY 23
FY 22
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100.00%
N.A.
Yes
100.00%
N.A.
Yes
Gratuity
100.00%
N.A.
Yes
100.00%
N.A.
Yes
ESI
17.86%
N.A.
Yes
20.74%
N.A.
Yes
Others – Pension, 
Superannuation*
30.86%
N.A.
Yes
2.23%
N.A.
Yes
* Data relates to employees availing benefits under National Pension Scheme (NPS) and / or Group Superannuation Scheme.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
165
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by 
the entity in this regard: Majority of our premises are accessible to persons with disabilities. There are few facilities 
which requires upgradation. As part of our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives, the Company is working 
towards improving access and use of all our facilities by persons with disabilities. 
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy: We are an equal opportunity employer and promote equal opportunity. Our policy 
clearly speaks about Equal Opportunity in all cases including that of Disability. We are compliant with the Disabilities 
Act, 2016. The policy is available at the Company’s weblink at https://www.suzlon.com/NewPdf/Shareholders_
Information/Corporate_Governance_Policies/2022-23/corporate_governance_policy.pdf.
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave:
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100.00%
100.00%
Female
0.00%
0.00%
N.A.
N.A.
Total
100.00%
100.00%
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief:
Particulars
Yes / No (If yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
There are different forums to register such complaints as under:
•	
Open House at Site / Visit by Area or State HR and CMD back office team
•	
Online portals like CHRO Connect, CEO Connect, HR4US
•	
Ethics / Whistleblower helpline
•	
POSH and Safety committee 
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
Value chain workers
•	
Ethics / Whistleblower helpline
•	
POSH and Safety committee
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY 23
FY 22
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees 
/workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (D)
% (D/C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
5,706
117
2.05%
5,189
119
2.29%
- Male
5,585
117
2.09%
5,079
119
2.34%
- Female
121
0
0.00%
110
0
0.00%
Total Permanent 
Workers
- Male
N.A.
N.A.
- Female
Annual Report 2022-23
166
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 23
FY 22
Total
On health and 
safety/wellness 
measures
On skill 
upgradation 
(Behavioral 
Training / Soft 
Skills Training)
Total
On health and 
safety/wellness 
measures
On skill 
upgradation 
(Behavioral 
Training / Soft 
Skills Training)
No. (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
EMPLOYEES
Male
5,585
3,842
68.79%
1,514
27.11%
5,079
3,487
68.66%
783
15.42%
Female
121
11
9.09%
17
14.05%
110
17
15.45%
8
7.27%
Total
5,706
3,853
67.53%
1,531
26.83%
5,189
3,504
67.53%
791
15.24%
WORKERS
Male
Female
N.A.
N.A.
Total
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 23
FY 22
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
EMPLOYEES
Male
5,585
4,775
85.50%
5,079
4,391
86.45%
Female
121
110
90.91%
110
103
93.64%
Total
5,706
4,885
85.61%
5,189
4,494
86.61%
WORKERS
Male
Female
 N.A.
 N.A.
Total
10.	 Health and safety management system:
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? 
(Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage of such system: Yes, the Occupational Health and Safety Management System 
(OHSMS) covers workplaces, manufacturing plants, projects sites and operation and maintenance sites.
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity: The hazard identification and risk assessment is conducted for each and every activity 
(Routine and Non-routine). The risk is quantified based on the rating scale, the risk score is calculated as the 
product of severity and probability of the hazard. The highest rating is categorized as critical (ranging from 
P1xS4 to P4xS4) whereas moderate and low are categorized as significant (ranging from, P1xS3 to P4xS2) and 
insignificant (P1xS1).
	
(P1 – Very rare probability; P2 – Remote probability; P3 – Occasional probability; P4 – Frequent probability; S1 – 
Negligible consequence; S2 – Marginal consequence; S3 – Critical consequence; S4 – Catastrophic consequence).
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks (Yes/No): Yes, the employees / value chain workers report the hazard to the shift HSE officer 
/ supervisor. The HSE officers or supervisors further take it to location head for ensuring and implementing 
preventive and mitigating controls.
	
The organisation ensures that employees / value chain workers are empowered to exercise their right to refuse to 
work in hazardous situation or until adequate safe system of work is provided to them. Employees / value chain 
workers have all right to inform the respective site / plant in-charge about the hazards present / involved in the 
jobs. The site in-charge / supervisor has the responsibility to ensure safety of the workforce. A detailed job safety 
analysis and permit to work systems is provided which is prepared in consultation with the workforce and based 
on their feedback. Safety committee meeting also serves as a platform for raising such issues, if any. It is also 
ensured that adequate and applicable PPE is provided and being used by the workforce, wherever needed.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
167
d.	
Do the employees / worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/ No): Yes, Suzlon provides medical and healthcare facility for the employees, community, contractors, 
workers of value chain partners as well as their family members. Suzlon runs health care clinics which are 
accessible to all stakeholders from various offices, plants, sites and communities.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident / 
Number
Category
FY 23
FY 22
WTG 
Manufacturing
WTG 
Projects
WTG 
Operation 
and 
Maintenance
SE 
Forge
WTG 
Manufacturing
WTG 
Projects
WTG 
Operation 
and 
Maintenance
SE 
Forge
Lost Time Injury 
Frequency Rate 
(LTIFR)* (per one 
million-person hours 
worked)
Employees
2.91
0.00
0.51
0
0.94
0
0.54
1.47
Value chain 
workers
0.18
1.61
0.15
0
1.40
0.94
1.04
0.71
Total no. of 
recordable work-
related injuries (Minor 
+ Major + Fatal)
Employees
4
0
7
0
3
0
6
2
Value chain 
workers
5
6
2
0
6
4
10
1
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
Value chain 
workers
1
2
0
0
0
1
1
0
High consequence 
work-related injury or 
ill-health (excluding 
fatalities) (Nos.)
Employees
4
0
3
0
2
0
3
2
Value chain 
workers
0
2
1
0
4
3
6
1
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace:
	
Following are the measures taken by the entity to ensure safety and health at workplace.
a.	
HSE policy - The HSE policy is explained and communicated using various communication such as e-mails and 
is also displayed at various locations at plants, sites and offices. It is further ensured that policy is displayed in 
local / national language for easy understanding. It is also a part of HSE induction trainings.
b.	
Hazard identification and risk assessment - The hazard identification and risk assessment is conducted for 
each and every activity (Routine & Non-routine). The risk is quantified based on the rating scale, the risk score 
is calculated as the product of severity and probability of the hazard. The highest rating is categorized as 
critical (ranging from P1xS4 to P4xS4) whereas moderate and low are categorized as significant (ranging from, 
P1xS3 to P4xS2) and insignificant (P1xS1).
	
(P1 – Very rare probability; P2 – Remote probability; P3 – Occasional probability; P4 – Frequent probability; 
S1 – Negligible consequence; S2 – Marginal consequence; S3 – Critical consequence; S4 – Catastrophic 
consequence).
c.	
PPE - It is the prime responsibility of the management to ensure that all required and applicable Personal 
Protective Equipment (PPE) is being used by the workforce and nobody is bypassing PPE usage guidelines and 
adhering to it.
d.	
Trainings - The organisation provides specific as well as generic trainings to its employees and value chain workers 
in order to ensure their safety. Among various training modules, few generic modules are induction training, first aid, 
firefighting, emergency preparedness and response etc. Specific training modules are also introduced like work at 
height, confined space, energy isolation / LOTO, electrically qualified professional training etc.
e.	
Safety committee - The organisation ensures that workforce is empowered to exercise their right to refuse 
work in hazardous situation or until adequate safe system of work is provided to them. Workforce has all 
right to inform the respective site / plant in-charge about the hazards present / involved in the jobs. Safety 
committee meeting serves as platform for raising issues pertaining to health and safety.
	
The safety committee comprises of representatives of management and workers (including contract 
manpower). 50% representation is mandatory from either side. The meeting is chaired by respective plant 
head / project manager. The workers' representative is responsible for highlighting the safety of workers at the 
workplace and to bring to notice the concerns of workers to the management. The management representative 
is responsible for implementing and improving the existing safety measures at the workplace.
Annual Report 2022-23
168
f.	
Permit to work (PTW) - The organization ensures that workforce is empowered to exercise its right to refuse 
work in hazardous situation or until adequate safe system of work is provided to them. Workforce has all right 
to inform the respective site / plant in-charge about the hazards present / involved in the jobs. Workers are 
provided with detailed job safety analysis and permit to work systems which are prepared based on their 
feedback and in consultation with them.
g.	
Communication - Various types of communication modes are used for disseminating information pertaining to 
HSE namely HSE policy, safety committee meetings, sign and display boards, banners and poster, employee 
desktop wallpapers etc.
h.	
Testing and preventive maintenance - It is ensured that equipment and tools are tested, calibrated and 
preventive maintenance conducted.
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Particulars
FY 23
FY 22
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Working conditions
6
0
The issues have 
been addressed and 
the monthly status is 
being captured
0
0
N.A.
Health and safety
0
0
N.A.
0
0
N.A.
14.	 Assessments for the year:
Particulars
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory 
authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100.00%
Working Conditions
100.00%
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) 
and on significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working 
conditions:
	
Case 1 – Fall From Height
Sr. 
No.
Corrective action
Status
1
Climbing and descending is not to be done during rainy conditions.
Completed
2
Contractor-wise list of manpower engaged in work at height to be prepared. Against this, no. of 
fall arresters available to be confirmed with serial numbers.
Completed
3
Vertigo Test for all manpower engaged in work at height to be performed, over & above their 
medical fitness certificate.
Completed
4
Ensure mandatory & strict use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Supervisor to ensure 
anchorage of workforce to fall arrester system. Reinforce importance of PPE usage while 
working during tool box talk (TBT) discussion & then issue Permit To Work(PTW). 
Completed
5
Re-train work at height workforce on work at height safety. Question them to ascertain their 
knowledge / understanding
Completed
6
Presence of supervisor during all high risk activities (including punch point closure) to be 
mandatorily followed. 
Completed
	
Case 2 – Compressed Air
Sr. 
No.
Corrective action
Remarks
1
Possibility of eliminating the hazard by introducing cleaning booth with Air blower, exhaust systems
Completed
2
Installation of hand shower (Nozzle with multiple hole) with control lever and regulators at all 5 outlets
Completed
3
Awareness session about the hazards involved in pressurised air and their consequences, for 
the workforce at workplace through tool box talk on day to day basis, induction / orientation 
(training programs to new joiners)
Completed
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
169
	
Case 3 – Hit by Object
Sr. 
No.
Corrective action
Remarks
1
Refresher training to workforce on erection procedure & ensuring adherence to work instructions & 
procedures. 
Completed
2
Revisit met-mast erection guidelines / work instructions & make necessary amendments 
considering potential process hazards
Completed
3
Bill Of Material (BOM) & drawing to be corrected & communicated for horizontal deployment. 
Completed
4
Double nut to be used for bottom section fixing.
Completed
5
Guywire anchorage to be mandatorily done for erected section (as defined in Work Instructions) 
before erecting next section.
Completed
6
Supervisor shall be present near the centre foundation to give “go-ahead” signal for anchoring guywires.
Completed
	
Case 4 – Suffocation /Fall From Height
Sr. 
No.
Corrective action
Remarks
1
Provision of respirator mask (PPE) to employees in case of smoke.
Completed
2
Provision of helmet mounted torch for all night shift employees and mandatory to carry.
Completed
3
Display night glow stickers in WTG for emergency exit.
Work in Progress
4
Firefighting and emergency preparedness training to all vehicle drivers.
Completed
5
Alert communication for all employees and awareness in ‘work at height’ training for handling 
the panic situation
Completed
6
Cable duct in-between switch yard and WTG shall always be filled with fine sand / soil to cut 
off oxygen entering from duct.
Completed
7
To cut off oxygen entering inside the WTG in case of fire, ready to use cloth with lashing 
fitment for WTG door to be made and kept ready at each site.
Completed
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees; 
(B) Workers (Y/N): 
	
(A)	 Employee: Yes, We provide Group term life Insurance to our employees in the event of death. 
	
(B)	 Worker: N.A. since the Company does not have permanent workers.
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and 
deposited by the value chain partners: The current month’s bills of Contractor are being processed after checking 
compliances of previous month. The process owner avails all the statutory compliance data and then clears the bills 
else hold back 10% of contract value for such contingencies. Statutory compliances by vendor (like PF, ESI, GST) 
are discharged by vendors. The Company obtains the relevant documents pertaining to the same every month. 
Similarly, GST collected from customers and TDS deducted is deposited as per defined procedures under the law.
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-
health / fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been / are rehabilitated and 
placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Particulars
Category
Total no. of affected 
employees
No. of employees that are 
rehabilitated and placed in 
suitable employment or whose 
family members have been 
placed in suitable employment
FY 23 
FY 22 
FY 23 
FY 22 
Fatalities
Employees
1
1
0
0
Value Chain Workers
3
2
0
0
Work - related injury  
(major injuries)
Employees
7
7
*
*
Value Chain Workers
3
14
0
0
ill-health (notifiable 
disease)
Employees
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Value Chain Workers
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
	
* The affected employees were not required to be rehabilitated since they have resumed their regular duties.
Annual Report 2022-23
170
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? Yes, Suzlon 
Group provides assistance for all employees during career ending resulting from retirement or termination 
(other than misconduct).
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Particulars
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
73.48%
Working Conditions
-
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners: None.
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity:
•	
Suzlon Group has made stakeholder engagement an integral part of its business strategy and considers 
addressing their concerns a top priority. Through stakeholder engagement, it aims to identify and address 
social, environmental, and governance issues related to its operations. Suzlon values stakeholder input and 
incorporates their suggestions into its business strategies to strengthen its internal systems and processes. 
Suzlon’s team regularly communicates with a diverse group of stakeholders who may be affected by its 
decisions. It engages in discussions with stakeholders to identify their top priorities and devises solutions to 
address them. Suzlon then follows the necessary procedures and protocols to implement these solutions.
•	
At Suzlon, the stakeholder engagement process includes direct and detailed consultation with wide groups 
of stakeholders. This process helps the Company to identify the critical issues, which need to be addressed 
immediately. Suzlon uses multiple communication channels namely email, e-portal, Community Advisory Panel 
(CAP) meetings, questionnaires and personal visits to engage with stakeholders. This helps to understand and 
identify key material topics, which, in turn enables the Suzlon Group to evaluate the criticality of the concerns 
and obtain a precise understanding of the concerns raised.
•	
In the wind energy business, there are several key stakeholders who play vital roles in the industry. Engaging 
with these stakeholders is crucial for the success and sustainable growth of wind energy projects. In addition 
to the internal stakeholders like employees and management who are engaged through various meetings, 
forums and surveys, the following key external stakeholders are engaged related to environment, social and 
governance topics.
-	
We engage in dialogue with government officials and regulatory bodies through meetings and industry 
forums to understand policies, incentives, and regulations related to wind energy development and 
advocate for favourable policies.
-	
We engage with local communities through public consultations and community engagement programs 
to understand and address concerns and build support for wind energy projects. Offer transparent 
information about the benefits of wind energy and community investment. Seek Community feedback 
during project planning and operation. Maintain regular communication to address concerns and provide 
updates on the project's progress.
-	
We engage with investors through meetings and present a clear and compelling business case for the wind 
energy project, including return on investment and risk assessment. We provide financial and technical 
reports to investors to ensure transparency and confidence in the project's viability. Establish a long-term 
relationship based on trust and reliability.
-	
We engage with suppliers and contractors through meetings and collaborate with them to ensure timely 
delivery of equipment and materials. We maintain an open line of communication with contractors to 
ensure smooth project execution and adherence to quality standards.
-	
We consult with environmental groups to address potential impacts on wildlife and habitats. We implement 
measures to minimize ecological disruption and promote sustainable practices. We share data and reports 
on environmental monitoring and mitigation efforts.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
171
-	
Overall, we maintain open communication, address concerns, and find common ground to ensure the 
mutual benefits of wind energy development for all parties involved.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group
Stakeholder Group Whether identified 
as Vulnerable & 
Marginalized Group 
(Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication 
(Email, SMS, 
Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community 
Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement (Annually/ 
Half yearly/ Quarterly / 
others – please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Employees
No
Appraisals, 
Internal Surveys, 
Questionnaire, 
HR Forums, 
Focused Group 
Discussions, all 
team meet, weekly 
/ monthly reviews, 
improvement 
displays
Daily, Weekly, Monthly, 
Quarterly, Annual
Purpose: To ensure a healthy, 
inclusive, and motivated 
workforce that contributes to 
the Company's success.
Scope: Providing a safe and 
fair workplace, fostering open 
communication, addressing 
employee concerns, offering 
professional development, 
and involving employees in 
decision-making.
Customers
No
Survey, 
questionnaire, 
One-to-one 
interactions with 
key customers, 
Customer Meets, 
Surveys Feedback 
calls, Training 
Forums, Direct 
Visits
Need based
Purpose: To understand 
customer needs, enhance 
customer satisfaction, and 
build brand loyalty.
Scope: Gaining feedback, 
addressing product / 
service concerns, providing 
transparent information, 
and delivering high-quality 
products / services.
Investors
No
Questionnaire, 
Action Plans, 
Investor Meets / 
Calls, Shareholder 
/ Investors 
Grievance Forum / 
General Meetings 
Annual / Quarterly, need 
based
Purpose: To maintain investor 
trust, ensure responsible 
financial management, 
and attract sustainable 
investments.
Scope: Communicating 
financial performance, 
disclosing relevant 
information, explaining 
business strategies, and 
addressing investor queries.
Suppliers/ Service 
Providers
No
Vendor Rating, 
Satisfaction 
Surveys, 
Questionnaire, 
Sustainable 
Supply Chain 
development, 
Supplier Meets, 
Audits
Daily, Weekly, Monthly, 
Quarterly, Annual
Purpose: To promote ethical 
sourcing, sustainability, 
and mutually beneficial 
relationships.
Scope: Ensuring fair 
procurement practices, 
promoting responsible 
sourcing, collaborating on 
sustainability initiatives, 
and fostering long-term 
partnerships.
Annual Report 2022-23
172
Regulatory 
Authorities
No
One-to-one 
meetings, 
Meetings in 
Industry Forum
Need based
Purpose: To comply with 
laws and regulations, ensure 
transparency, and contribute 
to effective governance.
Scope: Reporting accurate 
information, cooperating 
with regulatory inspections, 
staying updated on legal 
requirements, and addressing 
regulatory concerns.
Local Communities
Yes
Minutes of 
Meetings, 
Feedback letters, 
Questionnaire 
Meetings with 
local community, 
Public hearing
Daily, Weekly, Monthly
Purpose: To respect and 
contribute positively to the 
communities in which the 
business operates.
Scope: Engaging in 
community development 
projects, minimizing negative 
impacts on communities, 
addressing concerns, 
and providing livelihood 
opportunities.
Media
No
Minutes of 
Meeting, 
Action Plans, 
Questionnaire, 
Regular 
Interactions
On-going
Purpose: To maintain 
transparent communication, 
manage the Company's 
reputation, and share relevant 
information with the public.
Scope: Responding to media 
inquiries, sharing Company 
updates, addressing 
misperceptions, and providing 
accurate information.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board: 
Consultation with stakeholders on ESG topics are delegated to the departments within the organisation who are 
also responsible for engaging with stakeholders continually. Within the domains of ESG, the Company has a constant 
approach about the most important issues and preparing for them through these consultations. Material topics were 
shortlisted and prioritized based on their impact on our stakeholders and our business.
	
The processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics 
is delegated to Suzlon Foundation, a section 8 Company mandated to lead corporate social responsibility at Suzlon.
	
The processes and approaches for facilitating consultation used by Suzlon Foundation was transparent and based 
on the Suzlon’s values of Agility, Creativity, Value addition, Commitment and Integrity. The process began by Suzlon 
Foundation in the following manner:
	
The identification of Key Stakeholders was based on their significance and impact on the business. These 
stakeholders included customers, employees, suppliers, investors, local communities, NGOs, and regulatory 
authorities. The Stakeholder mapping involved categorizing stakeholders based on their interests, power, and level 
of influence over the Company’s activities and decisions.
	
This process helped to prioritize engagement efforts. Various channels for stakeholder consultation, such as 
surveys, interviews, focus groups, public meetings, online platforms, and formal dialogues were used. Feedback 
obtained from stakeholder consultations was compiled and reported to the Executive Governance Body (EG) to 
ensure that stakeholder perspectives are considered in decision-making. Annual General Meetings (AGMs) serve as 
a platform for stakeholders, including shareholders and other interested parties, to raise concerns and ask questions 
directly to the Board and senior management. Suzlon has established a feedback mechanisms, in the form of a 
dedicated email address, through which stakeholders can provide comments, suggestions, or complaints directly 
to the Company. Suzlon Foundation conducts materiality assessments to identify the most significant economic, 
environmental, and social issues for stakeholders and the Company. This process helps focus consultation efforts 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
173
on key topics. The feedback obtained from stakeholder consultations informs the organization's decision-making 
and strategies. It also drives continuous improvement in the organization's economic, environmental, and social 
performance. In addition to direct engagement, Suzlon Foundation on behalf of Suzlon Group collaborates with 
external stakeholders, such as NGOs, industry associations, and expert groups, to gain insights and feedback on 
relevant topics. These transparent and meaningful consultation with stakeholders helps to make informed decisions 
that align with the long-term interests of the organization and its stakeholders.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and 
social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on 
these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity: Yes, Stakeholder consultation is often 
used to support the identification and management of environmental and social topics. Suzlon Foundation a 
section 8 Company mandated to lead Suzlon CSR was set up to support underprivileged sections of society, create 
opportunities and strive towards a more equitable society. The Foundation engages with the community in a variety 
of areas that serve the vulnerable / marginalized stakeholder groups. Stakeholder consultation has played a crucial 
role in identifying material environmental and social topics that are relevant to the organization and its stakeholders. 
Inputs received from stakeholders has shaped the content and focus of the organization's sustainability reports, 
ensuring that the most significant issues are transparently disclosed. Stakeholders' perspectives are considered in 
materiality assessments, which have helped to identify the most relevant environmental and social topics for the 
organization. 
	
The materiality matrix reflects the importance of each topic to both the Company and its stakeholders, guiding the 
Company’s prioritization of efforts and resource allocation. Stakeholder inputs have contributed the development and 
revision of key environmental and social programs, to ensure that these programs align with stakeholder expectations 
and address the most significant concerns. Stakeholder consultation is crucial in Suzlon community engagement 
programs. Inputs from local communities have shaped initiatives and actions that address community needs and 
concerns. Input from employees, as important stakeholders, have shaped initiatives that promote employee well-
being, work-life balance, diversity and inclusion, and health and safety. Regular stakeholder engagement forums, 
roundtable discussions, or public consultations provide opportunities for stakeholders to express their views. 
Stakeholder consultation is integrated into issue resolution and grievance mechanisms to ensure that the concerns 
raised by stakeholders are appropriately addressed and resolved. This approach has not only fostered trust and 
transparency but has also enabled the organization to better address environmental and social challenges and 
create long-term value for both the Company and its stakeholders.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable 
/ marginalized stakeholder groups - 
	
Some general examples of how Suzlon has engaged with and addressed the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder groups are given below. Engaging with vulnerable or marginalized communities through direct 
consultation has allowed Suzlon to understand their specific needs, challenges, and aspirations in their respective 
geographical area.
	
In Rajasthan, India, during a severe drought, the rural community approached Suzlon to address the acute water 
scarcity as a pressing issue for the local communities. The lack of access to clean and sufficient water was negatively 
impacting the lives of the people, especially in rural areas, where water sources were depleting rapidly. As part of 
its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, Suzlon decided to address the water needs of the communities 
in a sustainable manner.
	
We launched a comprehensive water conservation and management program, with a focus on rainwater harvesting 
and pond desilting and check dam. Suzlon collaborated with local NGOs, government authorities, and community 
members to identify suitable locations for rainwater harvesting structures. These structures were designed 
to capture rainwater during the monsoon season, which could then be stored for use during the dry months. 
Additionally, the Company established check dams and recharge wells in critical areas to recharge the groundwater 
table. These structures helped in preventing water runoff and facilitated the replenishment of underground aquifers. 
Over time, the impact of the Company's CSR water initiatives became evident. The availability of water increased in 
the region, providing relief to the communities during droughts. The improved access to water contributed to better 
agricultural yields, enhanced livelihoods, and improved sanitation conditions. Furthermore, the water conservation 
efforts led to a positive environmental impact, as water-dependent ecosystems began to rejuvenate. Biodiversity in 
the region also showed signs of recovery, benefiting both flora and fauna. The Company's approach to addressing 
the water needs in Rajasthan not only fulfilled a critical need but also fostered a sense of ownership and pride 
within the local communities. By involving them in the planning and implementation of the initiatives, the Company 
established strong bonds with the people it served. In conclusion, the Company's CSR-driven water conservation 
and management program in Rajasthan exemplified a sustainable and community-centric approach to address a 
vital need, ensuring the well-being of the people and the environment in the region.
Annual Report 2022-23
174
	
Similarly Suzlon operating across multiple states in India recognized the need through engagement with villagers, 
NGOs and district authorities to support individuals with disabilities in rural villages. Suzlon observed that people 
with disabilities in these areas often faced significant barriers to employment, and inclusion within their communities. 
Determined to make a positive impact, the Company decided to address this issue as part of their Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. The Company initiated a comprehensive program called “Zero Dependency” to 
empower and uplift individuals with disabilities in the villages where they operated. Suzlon collaborated with local 
NGOs, disability organizations, and community leaders to understand the specific challenges faced by the disabled 
population and design targeted interventions.
	
To enhance employment opportunities, the Company partnered with disability-focused organizations. They offered 
programs tailored to the needs of individuals with disabilities. Recognizing the importance of assistive technologies, 
the Company initiated programs to provide assistive devices and mobility aids to individuals with disabilities from 
its CSR funds and leveraged other funds through the “meaningful birthday celebration” donations from employees. 
Wheelchairs, crutches, hearing aids, and other assistive devices were distributed to improve mobility, communication, 
and overall quality of life. Through their sustained efforts, Suzlon witnessed remarkable transformations. Children 
with disabilities gained access to education, improving their knowledge and skills. Young adults with disabilities 
found employment opportunities.
PRINCIPLE 5 - Businesses should respect and promote human rights 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the 
entity, in the following format:
Category
FY 23
FY 22
Total (A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
% (B/A)
Total(C)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers
covered (D)
% (D/C)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent
5,706
3,683
64.55%
5,189
2,133
41.11%
Other permanent
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Total Employees
5,706
3,683
64.55%
5,189
2,133
41.11%
WORKERS
Permanent
Other than permanent
N.A.
N.A.
Total Workers
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 23
FY 22
Total 
(A)
Equal Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal Minimum 
Wage To
More than 
Minimum Wage
No.(B) % (B/A)
No.(C)
% (C/A)
No.(E)
% (E/D)
No.(F)
% (F/D)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent
5,706
1,368
23.97%
4,338
76.03%
5,189
1,106
21.31%
4,083
78.69%
Male
5,585
1,361
24.37%
4,224
75.63%
5,079
1,097
21.60%
3,982
78.40%
Female
121
7
5.79%
114
94.21%
110
9
8.18%
101
91.82%
Other Permanent
Male
N.A.
N.A.
Female
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
175
WORKERS
Permanent
Male
N.A.
N.A.
Female
Other than Permanent
Male
N.A.
N.A.
Female
3.	
Details of remuneration / salary / wages, in the following format:
Particulars
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration / salary / wages of 
respective category
Number
Median remuneration 
/ salary / wages of 
respective category
Board of Directors 
(BoD)
1
N.A. since except for the Chairman and 
Managing Director, no other director receives any 
remuneration from the Company except sitting 
fees for attending the meetings of the Board and 
/ or committees of the Board
0
N.A.
Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP)
2
300 Lakh per annum
1
47.70 Lakh per annum 
Employees other 
than BoD and KMP
5,582
3.45 Lakh per annum
120
7.42 Lakh per annum
Workers
-
-
-
-
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual / Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or 
issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes / No): Yes, the focal point for addressing issues 
relating to human rights is the Chief Human Resource Officer of the Company.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues: 
	
Suzlon has a well-defined reporting and whistle blowing channels of communication such as a dedicated hotline 
e-mail for reporting incidents. The HR department including the Chief Human Resource Officer and his team plays 
a crucial role in addressing employee grievances, including those related to human rights. They are responsible 
for receiving complaints, conducting investigations, and implementing corrective actions. The Internal Complaints 
Committee specially constituted in line with the Sexual Harassment at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013 is in place and deals with all the cases of sexual harassment at workplace. Human rights aspects, 
being sensitive in nature, the confidentiality criteria is strictly adhered to, which facilitates the individuals to raise a 
concern. Suzlon implements the human Right policy by incorporating human rights considerations in all our business 
operations and decision making policies and processes; ensuring that employees and business partners are aware 
of and understand our human rights policy and its implementation; providing regular training and coaching to the 
employees and business partners on human rights issues; conducting due diligence/ Audit to identify and assess 
potential human rights policy adherence in the operations; developing and implementing strategies to prevent and 
mitigate any adverse human rights impacts of the operations; providing effective mechanisms for individuals and 
communities to raise human rights concerns and seek redress.
Annual Report 2022-23
176
6.	
Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Particulars
FY 23
FY 22
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
1
Nil
-
3
2
Pending 
complaints 
resolved 
during FY 23 
Discrimination	at work place
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Child Labour
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Wages
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Other human
Rights related issues
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
7.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases: To 
prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases, Suzlon has established 
a robust mechanism that prioritizes the protection and well-being of individuals who report such incidents. 
Confidential reporting channels like the special ethics helpline is provided for employees to report incidents of 
discrimination and harassment. Confidential reporting helps employees feel safer and more comfortable coming 
forward with their concerns. Suzlon has a strong non-retaliation policy that explicitly prohibits any form of retaliation 
against individuals who report discrimination or harassment.
	
Employees are educated about this policy on a continuous basis and understand that they can report incidents 
without fear of adverse consequences. Whistleblower protection is extended to individuals who report discrimination 
and harassment cases. This protection safeguards complainants from any negative actions taken against them as a 
result of their reporting.
	
Independent Investigations are conducted that are thorough and impartial into all reported cases. An independent 
committee handles the investigation, ensuring objectivity and fairness.
	
Training and Awareness are offered regularly for all employees to raise awareness about discrimination and 
harassment. Guidance is provided on recognizing and preventing such behaviour and understanding the reporting 
process. Support and Counselling Services are offered to complainants who have experienced discrimination or 
harassment. This helps individuals cope with the emotional and psychological impact of the incidents. Mediation is 
used as a conflict resolution where appropriate, to address complaints in a collaborative and constructive manner.
	
This approach can help resolve issues before they escalate. Remedial Actions and Disciplinary Measures are taken 
based on the investigation's findings. If the complaint is substantiated, disciplinary measures are imposed on 
the perpetrator, which may include warnings, training, suspension, or termination, depending on the severity of 
the offence. Review and Monitoring of the effectiveness of the mechanisms in place are undertaken to prevent 
adverse consequences to complainants. Suzlon fosters an inclusive and diverse work environment by implementing 
initiatives that promote respect and equality among all employees. Suzlon allows employees to report incidents to 
external authorities, if they feel the internal mechanisms are ineffective or compromised.
	
Creating a safe and supportive environment for individuals to report discrimination and harassment is crucial for 
Suzlon to addressing these issues effectively. Suzlon fosters a culture of zero tolerance for such behaviour and 
demonstrates its commitment to protecting the rights and dignity of all employees.
8.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts: Yes.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
177
9.	
Assessment for the year:
Particulars
% of your plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties*)
Child labour
46.55%
Forced / involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
N.A.
	
* Audits were carried out by third party (DNV) which covered above referred matters.
10.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 9 above: There were no significant risks / concerns arising from third 
party assessments.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances / 
complaints: Multiple process have been modified and introduced in order to address Human rights grievances and 
complaints. In order to ensure real time monitoring of Human rights regulatory compliances and IT based portal 
has been introduced. To ensure ease of access in logging grievances and complaints direct contact can be made 
through the CHRO & CEO connect which has been introduced. The HR4US portal has also been launched for speedy 
redressal of grievances.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted: The scope of Human Rights 
Due Diligence includes the following: 
•	
Labour Practices and Conditions, including fair wages, working hours, freedom of association, and occupational 
health and safety measures; 
•	
Child Labor and Forced Labor: Ensuring that suppliers do not engage in child labour or forced labour and have 
mechanisms in place to identify and address such risks within their supply chain. 
•	
Discrimination and Harassment: Assessing whether suppliers have policies and practices to prevent 
discrimination and harassment in the workplace, ensuring a safe and inclusive working environment. 
•	
Environmental Impacts: Evaluating suppliers' environmental practices to ensure they are aligned with 
environmental sustainability and do not lead to human rights violations. 
3.	
Is the premise / office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016: The Corporate Head quarter has been designed to ensure accessibility to 
differently abled persons thus setting an example for the Suzlon Group. 
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Particulars
% of value chain partners (by value 
of business done with such partners) 
that were assessed
% Procurement Value against BOM 
Value
Sexual Harassment
0
N.A.
Discrimination at workplace
100% of A Class Suppliers
73.48%
Child Labour
100% of A Class Suppliers
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
100% of A Class Suppliers
Wages
100% of A Class Suppliers
Others – please specify
N.A.
N.A.
Annual Report 2022-23
178
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 4 above: N.A. 
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 23
FY 22
Units in Gijajoules (GJ)
Total electricity consumption (A)
1,27,069.07
1,17,721.40
Total fuel consumption (B)
45,22,221.59
29,12,638.84
Energy consumption through other sources (C) Wind & Solar Energy Used
19,354.90
38,523.37
Total energy consumption (A+B+C)
46,68,645.56
30,68,883.61
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumption / turnover - 
in rupees)
7.69 GJ/rupee
4.60 GJ/rupee
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency: No
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under 
the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, 
if any: No, Suzlon’s sites / facilities are not designated as DCs.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 23 (in kilolitres)
FY 22 (in kilolitres)
Water withdrawal by source
(i)	 Surface water
10,074.06
12,520.60
(ii)	 Groundwater
67,705.83
65,270.81
(iii)	Third party water
99,958.83
1,46,089.56
(iv)	Seawater / desalinated water
0 
0
(v)	 Others (Rain water Harvesting)
442.00
56.00
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
1,78,180.72
2,23,936.97
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
1,78,180.72
2,23,936.97
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
3.77
4.67
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency: No
4.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage 
and implementation: As water is not a part of process / production at Suzlon therefore zero liquid discharge is 
not applicable, except SE Forge (Foundry unit). SE Forge Foundry unit has Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) which 
treats the generated process waste water (coolant) which is further reutilised for the gardening, toilet flushing and 
cleaning purpose.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
179
5.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Specify Unit
FY 23
FY 22
NOx
µg/m3
19.98
18.84
SOx
µg/m3
10.83
11.26
Particulate matter (PM) 10
µg/m3
61.00
59.00
Particulate matter (PM) 2.5
µg/m3
34.00
29.00
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
-
-
Others- please specify
-
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency: No
6.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) and its intensity, in the 
following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 23 
FY 22
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
WTG Manufacturing
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
534
2,202
WTG Projects
217
277
WTG Operation & Maintenance
73
87
SE Forge
5,359
5,378
Total
6,183
7,944
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
WTG Manufacturing
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
4,725
6,548
WTG Projects
129
137
WTG Operation & Maintenance
4,510
979
SE Forge
18,521
18,169
Total
27,885
25,833
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of 
turnover
4.59
3.88
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional)
WTG Manufacturing
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent / 
MW
7.90
81.00
WTG Projects
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent / 
MW
0.50
0.76
WTG Operation & Maintenance
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent / 
MW
0.30
0.10
SE Forge
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent / 
Tonnes
0.59
0.56
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency: No
Annual Report 2022-23
180
7.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Greenhouse Gas emission? If Yes, then provide 
details: Yes, following projects are initiated:
•	
Innovations in Turbine design increased gear box oil lifespan, reducing carbon emissions per wind turbine
•	
The Waste to Wealth CSR initiative sought to evaluate the current waste and convert it into innovative products 
for the use by remote rural communities.
8.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 23 
FY 22
WTG 
Manufacturing
WTG 
Projects
WTG 
Operation 
and 
Maintenance
SE Forge
WTG 
Manufacturing
WTG 
Projects
WTG 
Operation 
and 
Maintenance
SE Forge
Total waste generated in metric 
tonnes
Plastic waste (A)
29.30
5.10
4.80
5.78
58.00
-
-
-
E-waste (B)
0.30
1.36
16.80
1.00
-
0.13
35.00
-
Bio-medical waste (C)
42.65
-
-
-
35.52
-
-
-
Construction and demolition waste (D)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Battery waste (E)
0.29
0.32
582.00
-
0.49
0.81
425.00
-
Radioactive waste (F)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other Hazardous waste. Please 
specify, if any. (G)
5.1 Used / Spent Oil (Liquid)
7.94
0.82
655.07
1.95
5.72
-
888.75
23.1 - Waste / Residue (Adhesives, 
Resin etc.)
2,110.00
0.64
392.00
10.60
2,492.00
0.08
252.00
145.38
33.1 Discarded Containers / Barrels 
(Solid)
1,925.78
1.08
69.08
107.86
1,582.62
-
-
Other Non-hazardous waste 
generated (H).
5,669.00
1,294.50
323.00
15,521.00
5,648.40
-
123.00
16,433.37
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
9,785.26
1,303.82
2,042.75
15,648.19
9,822.75
1.02
1,723.75
16,578.75
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of Waste – Nil as no recycling, reusing or other recovery operations are being undertaken currently.
(i) Recycled
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(ii) Re-used
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii) Other recovery operations
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Incineration
1,795.22
-
-
-
2,678.88
-
-
-
(ii) Landfilling
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii) Landfilling after incineration-
Spent Bath Sludge / ETP Sludge / 
Oily Cotton waste / Paint Sludge
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
1,795.22
-
-
-
2,678.88
-
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency: No
9.	
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your Company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes 
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes: The waste management is carried out in accordance with the 
Guideline for waste storage, handling, and disposal, which takes into account both hazardous and non-hazardous 
wastes. The Hazardous Waste Management Guidelines 2016 have been resorted for waste storage, handling, and 
disposal. In addition, all appropriate forms are completed and maintained for legal compliance.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
181
	
Monitoring mechanism to ensure safe management and reduction of waste generation is as follows:
•	
The generated waste is collected and segregated as per Consent to operate.
•	
The record of generated waste at plants / sites is maintained in Form – 3 (Maintaining records of Hazardous 
waste and other waste).
•	
It is ensured that waste is collected, segregated and stored safely. Further, the waste is disposed through 
authorised waste disposal agency with Form - 10 (Manifest for hazardous and other waste). 
•	
Stock norms are defined for each category of waste and is disposed as per statutory norms.
•	
Control on usage of plastic as packing material has been initiated.
•	
Acetone (High risk of Fire, falls under the category of Class A, and is harmful for human) was earlier used for 
mould cleaning which is now replaced by Muscle clean HD 27 chemical (does not flash).
•	
Product weight optimization methodologies is being adopted for curbing the generation of waste during 
production.
10.	 If the entity has operations / offices in / around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where 
environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format: At the site 
identification and planning stage, our Wind Resource team earmarks all such ecologically sensitive areas like 
national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, forests, biosphere reserves, Eco - Sensitive Zone (ESZ), etc. Accordingly, the 
micrositing is done by excluding such areas to the maximum extent possible. However, in certain cases, sites 
have been identified and developed in the forest areas and ESZ after obtaining the relevant permissions from 
the concerned statutory bodies like Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, nodal / regional forest 
offices.
Sr. 
No.
Location of 
operations / offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval / clearance 
are being complied with? (Y/N). If no, the reasons thereof and 
corrective action taken, if any.
1.
India
WTG Manufacturing, WTG 
Projects, WTG Operation & 
Maintenance and SE Forge
Yes
11.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable 
laws, in the current financial year:
Name and brief 
details of project
EIA Notification 
No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain  
(Yes / No)
Relevant 
Web link
During the year under review and as per applicable laws, environmental impact assessment is not applicable for any 
projects undertaken by Suzlon Group. However, few customers undertake environmental impact assessments of projects 
and share the findings based on which necessary mitigation measures are undertaken as may be relevant.
12.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law / regulations / guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection 
act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format: Yes.
Sr. 
No.
Specify the law / regulation 
/ guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details of 
the non- compliance
Any fines / penalties / action taken 
by regulatory agencies such as 
pollution control boards or by courts
Corrective action 
taken, if any
N.A.
Annual Report 2022-23
182
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable 
sources, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 23
FY 22
WTG 
Manufacturing
WTG 
Projects
WTG 
Operation 
and 
Maintenance
SE Forge
WTG 
Manufacturing
WTG 
Projects
WTG 
Operation 
and 
Maintenance
SE Forge
(Units in Gigajoules)
From renewable sources 
Total electricity 
consumption (A)
19,354.90
0
0
0 
38,523.37
0
0
0
Total fuel consumption (B)
 0
0
0
0
 0
0
0
0
Energy consumption 
through other sources (C )
 0
0
0
0
 0
0
0
0 
Total energy consumed 
from renewable sources 
(A+B+C)
19,354.90
0
0
0
38,523.37
0
0
0
From non-renewable 
sources
Total electricity 
consumption (D)
21,531.29
588.08
20,552.05
84,397.66
29,837.65
623.69
4,463.54
82,796.52
Total fuel consumption (E)
7,735.42
3,181.66
1,068.06
45,10,236.45
33,421.27
4,028.27
1,293.23
28,73,896.07
Energy consumption through 
other sources (F)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total energy consumed 
from non-renewable 
sources (D+E+F)
29,266.71
3,769.74
21,620.11
45,94,634.11
63,258.92
4,651.96
5,756.76
29,56,692.59
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency: No
2.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 23
FY 22
WTG 
Manufacturing
WTG 
Projects
WTG 
Operation & 
Maintenance
SE forge
WTG 
Manufacturing
WTG 
Projects
WTG 
Operation & 
Maintenance
SE Forge
Water discharge by 
destination and level of 
treatment (in kilolitres) 
(i)	 To Surface water
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
- 	
No treatment
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-	
With treatment – 
please specify level of 
Treatment- recycled
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
(ii)	 To Groundwater
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-	
No treatment
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-	
With treatment – 
please specify level of 
Treatment
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
(iii)	To Seawater
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-	
No treatment
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-	
With treatment – 
please specify level of 
Treatment
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
183
Parameter
FY 23
FY 22
WTG 
Manufacturing
WTG 
Projects
WTG 
Operation & 
Maintenance
SE forge
WTG 
Manufacturing
WTG 
Projects
WTG 
Operation & 
Maintenance
SE Forge
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-	
No treatment
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-	
With treatment – 
please specify level of 
Treatment
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
(v)	 Others
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-	
No treatment
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-	
With treatment – 
please specify level of 
Treatment
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total water discharged  
(in kilolitres)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency: No
3.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres). For each facility / 
plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i)	
Name of the area: BHUJ and JAISALMER
	
(ii)	
Nature of operations: Manufacturing of rotor blades for Wind Turbines
4.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 23
FY 22
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
WTG Manufacturing
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
98,75,338
2,15,06,283
WTG Projects
WTG Operation & Maintenance
SE Forge
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent / 
Rupee
1,627
3,229
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency: No
5.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, 
provide details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with 
prevention and remediation activities: 
•	
Wind turbines can pose a collision risk to birds and bats, especially during migration periods or in areas with 
high species diversity. Collisions can lead to bird and bat mortality. Suzlon wind turbines have sensor that 
detect flying animals in the vicinity of wind farms and automatically curtail turbine operations. Sites are carefully 
chosen to avoid critical wildlife habitats, sensitive breeding areas, and migration routes.
•	
Wind turbines can generate noise, which can disturb wildlife and impact their behaviour, communication, 
and breeding activities. Suzlon has used advanced turbine technologies and design features to reduce noise 
emissions. The electrical transmission line can pose a risk of electrocution and accidents to birds. The bird 
guards on poles, bird diverters and insulation sleeves on powerlines are installed to mitigate the same.
•	
Suzlon works in collaboration with environmental experts and relevant regulatory bodies to monitor and address 
the direct and indirect impacts of wind turbines on biodiversity. By implementing prevention and remediation 
activities, the negative effects on wildlife are minimized and long-term conservation of biodiversity is promoted 
in ecologically sensitive areas.
Annual Report 2022-23
184
6.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please 
provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sr. 
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the 
initiative (Web-
link, if any, may be 
provided along  
with summary)
Outcome of the 
initiative
1.
Reduction in plastic usage in packing consignment to sites.
-
Reduction in plastic 
waste.
2.
Instead of using aluminium, we have started using in-house FRP 
channels for nacelle cover rimming process
-
Reduction in metallic 
waste
3
Modified transportation fixture for two sets of top parts in a single 
trip thereby reducing fuel consumption.
-
Reduction in fuel 
consumption
4
Used MS waste materials for making Nacelle cover storage racks
-
Reduction in MS 
waste
5
Recycling of Glass mat, Resin and Wooden waste materials for 
making false ceiling for canteen and Admin office
-
Reduction in waste 
generation.
6
Recycling of Glass mat & Resin waste material for making FRP 
sheets For manufacturing deburring chamber and labour colony (for 
Project / OMS site)
-
Reduction in waste 
generation.
7
Recycling of Glass mat & Resin waste material for making dispatch 
shed, Scrap yard shed, Warehouse shed, Grinding Peel ply shed, 
Fire Hydrant shed and MPRP Mezzanine floor
-
Reduction in waste 
generation.
7.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words / 
web link:
	
Suzlon Group has an active risk mitigating strategy that allows it a wholesome view of the internal and external 
environment in order to proactively address challenges, to the best extent possible. We have Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) policy available on Suzlon website, which describes the ERM Framework, comprising ERM 
processes and organisation structure to embed risk-aware culture across Suzlon. It details procedures, roles and 
responsibilities for each entity in the structure.
	
Risk Management Committee (RMC) has been formed which reviews the risk registers on half yearly basis. 
Considering the imperatives of market and industry transformation, along with tremendous opportunities offered 
by it, we evaluate the corresponding risks / challenges and accordingly update the risk register including probability 
and intensity of risk along with detailed mitigation plan, owner and tentative timelines.
	
The Company’s risk management policy is available on Company’s web link at https://www.suzlon.com/NewPdf/
Shareholders_Information/Corporate_Governance_Policies/2022-23/Risk_Management_Policy.pdf
	
Further, there is well established emergency preparedness and response plan in place which undertakes all types 
of emergency which could hamper the business continuance.
8.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard: None
9.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts: 73.48%
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
185
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner 
that is responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations: 6 (Six)
	
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers / associations (determined based on the total members 
of such body) the entity is a member of / affiliated to:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers / 
associations (State / National)
1
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National 
2
Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry (FICCI)
National
3
US-India Business Council (USIBC)
International
4
Indian Wind Turbine Manufacturers Association (IWTMA)
National
5
Indian Wind Power Association (IWPA)
National
6
Global Wind Energy Council (GWEC)
International
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- competitive conduct 
by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities:
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
Sr. 
No
Public policy 
advocated
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No))
Frequency of Review 
by Board (Annually/ 
Half yearly/ Quarterly / 
Others – please specify)
Web Link, if 
available
1
Policies related 
to promotion of 
Renewable Energy
Participation 
in industry 
association 
meetings
No
N.A.
N.A.
	
Suzlon does not make political contributions and is not involved in lobbying activities.
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year:
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA Notification 
No. and Date of 
notification
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency (Yes 
/ No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain (Yes 
/ No)
Relevant Web Link
During the year under review and as per applicable laws, SIA is not applicable for any projects undertaken by Suzlon Group.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being 
undertaken by your entity, in the following format:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project 
affected Families 
(PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by R & R
Amount paid to 
PAFs in FY (In `)
N.A.
Annual Report 2022-23
186
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community: Suzlon is a responsible Company 
towards voice of an important stakeholder namely the community. Just like HR has a system to respond to employee 
grievance and business has a system to respond to customer grievance, Suzlon CSR program has a mechanism to 
respond to community grievance. Community being an important stakeholder since the wind turbine stands in their 
backyard. Suzlon has a grievance mechanism for affected communities for receiving, evaluating and addressing 
Suzlon project related grievances from affected communities. The grievance handling procedure of organization 
can ensure harmonious environment of the organization. The purpose of grievance redressal mechanism is to 
serve as an alternative to external dispute resolution processes (legal or administrative systems or other public or 
civic mechanisms) Scope of Community grievance redressal mechanism of Suzlon is restricted to non-commercial 
grievances and non-political issues. 
	
Details include:
	
1	
Grievance boundaries: a. Grievance constitutes any activity of the business that has resulted in an inadvertent 
negative impact on the community (example, speeding vehicle creating dust, improper civil work leading 
to flooding of farmer field). b. This is not a mechanism to respond to community expectations unrelated to 
business c. This is not a mechanism to respond to political expectations. d. This is not a mechanism to respond 
to the threats from miscreants.
	
2.	
Raising the Grievance:
•	
Anyone from community can raise the grievance through phone, email, letters, etc. 
•	
Community in this context includes members of the village where wind turbine or factory is located or 
villages of transit for business. It does not include employees, vendors, suppliers who may reside in village 
since there are other mechanisms for their grievances.
•	
The rights of person raising compliant is protected.
•	
The community can also approach village development committees, Suzlon CSR NGO partners and Suzlon 
CSR program personnel.
	
3.	
Registering the grievance:
•	
Anyone in Suzlon receiving the complaint can register the complaint with the state CSR manager within 2 
working days of receipt of the complaint.
•	
The compliant must clearly state the name of the complainant, the issue and suggested resolution sought.
•	
Even if the complaint does not seem to fall under the categories of grievance, it can be recorded so that 
the committee can determine if it qualifies or not.
	
4.	
Response and resolution of the grievance:
•	
The grievance will be discussed and addressed by relevant persons of the Grievance Redressal Cell as 
authorized by relevant grievance committee member. The response will be given to complainant within 
45 days.
•	
If the response is not acceptable to the complainant, then it will be escalated, and the grievance redressal 
committee of the Company will respond to the complainant within 15 days. The Grievance Redressal Cell 
and committee is required to complete its proceedings within 60 days of registration of the complaint All 
requests, expectations and complaints must be registered and recorded even though only grievances will 
be acted upon by the cell while others will be handed over to appropriate departments to take needed 
action ( like the CSR team is given the community expectations and the political expectations are shared 
with public relations person) In order to ensure all grievances are registered and acted upon, quarterly 
calls with Grievance committee and cell members reiterate the policy, clarify doubts, reconcile figure and 
discuss about complicated long standing cases, analyze trends and propose steps to prevent it in future 
are also discussed.
•	
The grievance committee members include CSR head and state/ factory head and cell members include 
site / area / key department heads of regions. Local meetings and con call are used to discuss between 
cell members and take collective decisions. The role of CSR manager who is a cell member is to register 
and track grievance for timely resolution.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
187
	
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
Particulars
FY 23 
FY 22 
Directly sourced from MSMEs / small producers
1.26%
2.51%
Sourced directly from within the district and neighbouring districts
-
-
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
N.A.
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational 
districts as identified by government bodies:
Sr. 
No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (` in Crore)
1.
Rajasthan
Jaisalmer
0.20
2.
Maharashtra
Nandurbar
0.02
3.	
a.	
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalized / vulnerable groups? (Yes/No): No, we do not have a preferential procurement 
policy however we purchase from marginalized / vulnerable groups to the extent possible.
	
b.	
From which marginalized / vulnerable groups do you procure? As part of Suzlon CSR initiatives, the men 
and women based in villages of Gujarat and Tamil Nadu received training and support to make some products 
like crafts from palm leaves, traditional embroidery & weaving as part of craft rejuvenation. The products 
have reached a level of high quality. They are marketed in nearby towns and cities. Suzlon has when possible 
purchased crafts in order to use it as a gift for our employees and visitors.
	
c.	
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? Negligible.
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your 
entity (in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
Sr. 
No
Intellectual Property 
based on traditional 
knowledge
Owned / Acquired (Yes 
/ No)
Benefit	shared (Yes / No)
Basis	 of calculating 
benefit share
N.A. since Suzlon does not own any intellectual property rights based on traditional knowledge.
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property 
related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
Nil
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
	
During FY 23, Suzlon conducted over 2,573 impactful CSR activities and touched lives in 609 villages reaching over 
30,00,000 villagers and 10,00,000 households. The CSR activities were focused on six key areas - Environment, 
Empowerment, Health, Livelihood, Education and Civic Amenities. These activities were undertaken in consultation 
with communities and in collaboration with over 60 institutions such as Government, private agencies and corporate 
foundations. Additionally, Suzlon’s CSR programs leveraged ₹ 1.10 Crore of co-funding from other stakeholders like 
employees, customers and community members.
Annual Report 2022-23
188
State
CSR Project
No of persons benefitted from CSR project
% of Beneficiaries 
from vulnerable 
and marginalised 
groups
Population Household Children Students Farmers Women
Widowed 
Women
Specially 
abled
Group Animals
Andhra 
Pradesh
SUZTAIN-Sustainable 
need based village 
development in 
Andhra Pradesh 
Villages
67917
13220
100
3025
210
 0
0
1
335
0
100.00%
Gujarat
SUZTAIN-Sustainable 
need based village 
development in 
Gujarat Villages
2799442
394624
473
6940
 0
1028
0
285
699
1500
100.00%
Karnataka
SUZTAIN-Sustainable 
need based village 
development in 
Karnataka Villages
73671
13760
140
1428
330
192
 0
16
0
0
100.00%
Maharashtra SUZTAIN-Sustainable 
need based village 
development in 
Maharashtra Villages
150185
27370
1519
2758
3129
986
 0
19
670
0
100.00%
Madhya 
Pradesh
SUZTAIN-Sustainable 
need based village 
development in 
Madhya Pradesh 
Villages
101711
20271
2802
3100
386
1111
 0
26
120
200
100.00%
Rajasthan
SUZTAIN-Sustainable 
need based village 
development in 
Rajasthan Villages
172860
26616
351
4751
175
647
 0
17
294
0
100.00%
Tamil Nadu 
SUZTAIN-Sustainable 
need based village 
development in Tamil 
Nadu Villages 
172222
41854
757
7465
200
1473
15
22
518
1923
100.00%
Telangana
SUZTAIN-Sustainable 
need based village 
development in 
Telangana Villages
5941
1122
0
420
0
0
0
0
0
0
100.00%
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints & feedback: Suzlon does not 
have direct consumers however customer or any person on behalf of customer can raise their complaints in CRMS 
Help Desk portal namely https://crms.suzlon.com.
2.	
Turnover of products and / services as a percentage of turnover from all products / service that carry 
information about:
Particulars
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
100.00%
Safe and responsible usage
100.00%
Recycling and / or safe disposal
100.00%
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
Particulars
FY 23
FY 22
Remarks
Received during 
the year (Nos.)
Pending 
resolution at end 
of year (Nos.)
Received during 
the year (Nos.)
Pending 
resolution at end 
of year (Nos.)
Data privacy
Nil
-
Nil
-
Advertising
Nil
-
Nil
-
Cyber-security
Nil
-
Nil
-
Delivery of essential Services
Nil
-
Nil
-
Restrictive Trade Practices
Nil
-
Nil
-
Unfair Trade Practices
Nil
-
Nil
-
Other – Customer complaints
5,696
10
1,063
31
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
189
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Particulars
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
N.A.
N.A.
Forced recalls
N.A.
N.A.
5.	
Does the entity have a framework / policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No). If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy: Yes, the cyber security risks fall under the IT Risks which are covered 
under the Risk Management Policy of the Company. The Risk Management Policy of the Company is available on 
Company’s website at web link https://www.suzlon.com/NewPdf/Shareholders_Information/Corporate_Governance_
Policies/2022-23/Risk_Management_Policy.pdf. 
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising and delivery of 
essential services, cyber security and data privacy of customers, re-occurrence of instances of product recalls, 
penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services: No such cases have been reported.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide 
web link, if available): The information on the Company’s products is available on the website of the Company 
(www.suzlon.com).
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and / or services: 
Though Suzlon is not having any direct consumer for its products but due to a sense of responsibility, Suzlon 
conducts electrical safety awareness programs for village communities in India where the wind turbine power 
transmission lines are present.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption / discontinuation of essential services: 
Suzlon is not having any consumer product hence this point is not applicable.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? 
(Yes/No/Not Applicable). If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer 
satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity 
or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No): Yes, the WTG Product displays required information on the product over and 
above what is mandated as per local laws. Also, such necessary details have been covered in Product Safety Manuals. 
Further, survey with regards to customer satisfaction related to the major products and services was carried out.
	
Warning signs and manuals: Basic safety related signs and symbols are placed inside and outside on the WTG. The 
set of customer documentation consists of separate manuals for safety, operation, maintenance, troubleshooting 
and service, with additional rules and information on health and safety when working in or around the WTG. Required 
compliance obligations are met and recorded through Compliance Certificates from Regulatory authorities (e.g. Grid 
Code Compliance). All such compliances are fulfilled however not displayed on the Product.
5.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact: No such cases reported.
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: N.A.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
Place: Pune
Date: August 08, 2023
Financial 
Statements
Nakhatrana Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
Annual Report 2022-23
192
To the Members of Suzlon Energy Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of Suzlon Energy Limited (the ‘Company’), 
which comprise the Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2023, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Income), the Statement of Cash Flow and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then 
ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, including a summary of the significant accounting policies 
and other explanatory information, in which are included the returns for the year ended on that date audited by the 
branch auditors of the Company’s branches located at Germany and Netherlands.
	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and based on the 
consideration of the reports of the branch auditors as referred to in paragraph 15 below, the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) specified under section 
133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31 March 2023, and its profit (including other 
comprehensive income), its cash flows and the changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
2.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing specified under section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of 
the Standalone Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance 
with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act and 
the rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained together with the audit evidence 
obtained by the branch auditors, in terms of their reports referred to in paragraph 15 of the Other Matter section 
below is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Emphasis of Matter
3.	
We draw attention to Note 5 to the accompanying standalone financial statements, related to a show cause notice 
received by the Company from SEBI in respect of certain specific transactions between the Company and its 
domestic subsidiaries and disclosure of a contingent liability in respect of earlier years. Management believes that 
there is no material impact of this matter on the financial statements. Our opinion is not modified in respect of 
this matter.
Key Audit Matters
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, and based on the consideration of the 
reports of the branch auditors as referred to paragraph 15 below, were of most significance in our audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
STANDALONE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
193
5.	
We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Accounting of refinancing of existing restructured 
facilities
As described in Note 4 to the standalone financial 
statements, during the current year, the Company 
along with its identified subsidiaries namely, Suzlon 
Global Services Limited and Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park 
Limited (collectively referred to as Suzlon - The Group 
(‘STG’)) entered into a refinancing agreement for its 
existing restructured facilities. As a result of which, the 
outstanding obligations of the STG in respect of the 
erstwhile lenders were settled. 
The accounting of refinancing agreement and its 
resultant difference on account of extinguishment 
of existing restructured facilities involve complex 
assumptions and evaluation and implementation of 
the contractual terms that require the management 
to exercise their judgment. Refer Note 33 of the 
standalone financial statements for the gain recognised 
due to the refinancing agreement. 
Considering the significance of the amounts, extent 
of evaluation of contractual terms involved, and 
complexities associated, we have considered this 
matter as a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures in relation to accounting of 
refinancing arrangement and the treatment of resultant 
gain arising from such restructuring included but were 
not limited to the following:
•	
Obtained an understanding of and assessing 
the 
design, 
implementation 
and 
operating 
effectiveness of the key internal controls relating 
to recognition and measurement resulting from the 
implementation of the refinancing arrangement 
and of the existing restructured facilities;
•	
Obtained an understanding of the contractual 
terms of the refinancing agreement;
•	
Evaluated 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
the 
implementation of the contractual terms of 
refinancing agreement on the related liabilities 
including 
extinguishment 
of 
the 
existing 
restructured facilities;
•	
Tested the arithmetical accuracy of the resultant 
gain arising from extinguishment of the existing 
restructured facilities; and
•	
Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy 
of disclosures made in the standalone financial 
statements in accordance with the requirements 
of applicable accounting standards.
Assessment of going concern basis of accounting 
assumption
The current liabilities of the Company exceed current 
assets by ₹ 401.63 Crores as at 31 March 2023 and as of 
that date, while the Company has accumulated losses, 
it’s net equity stands at ₹ 1,419.39 Crores. 
Further, during the year, the Company has entered into a 
Rupee Term Loan (‘RTL’) agreement with REC Limited and 
Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited 
(the “New Lenders”), which requires the Company to fulfil 
certain conditions including monetisation of specified 
assets, failing which it could trigger an event of default.
Whilst the above factors indicate doubt on the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, however, as 
detailed in note 48(j), the management has considered 
its business plan and its response to mitigate the 
uncertainties relating to fulfilment of certain obligations 
including monetisation of specified assets within 
stipulated timelines as per the terms of RTL agreement. 
Management has prepared future cash flow forecasts 
using significant estimates to develop a number of 
assumptions in respect of these uncertainties including, 
seeking additional facilities and monetisation of specified 
assets within stipulated time period, to assess its ability 
to operate as a going concern for a period of at least 
12 months from the date of financial statements and 
concluded that the going concern basis of accounting 
used for preparation of the accompanying standalone 
financial statements is appropriate with no material 
uncertainty over going concern. 
Our audit procedures in relation to assessment of 
appropriateness of going concern assumption included 
but were not limited to the following:
•	
Obtained an understanding of the process 
followed by management for identifying events 
or conditions that could impact the Company's 
ability to continue as a going concern and process 
followed to assess the corresponding mitigating 
factors existing against such events or condition. 
Also, obtained an understanding around the 
methodology adopted by the Company to assess 
their future business performance including 
the preparation of a cash flow forecast for the 
business; 
•	
Evaluated the design and tested the operating 
effectiveness 
of 
key 
controls 
relating 
to 
management's assessment of going concern as 
above;
•	
Obtained from the management, the projected 
cash flows for the next twelve months basis their 
future approved business plans;
•	
Tested the appropriateness of the key assumptions 
used by the management that had the most 
material impact on the cash flow forecasts, and 
challenged the assumptions, judgements and 
estimates used in the cash flow projections, having 
regard to historical performance and current 
emerging business trends affecting the business 
and industry and discussed these assumptions 
with the management and with those charged with 
governance;
Annual Report 2022-23
194
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
We have considered the assessment of management’s 
evaluation of going concern basis of accounting as a 
key audit matter due to the pervasive impact thereof on 
the standalone financial statements and the significant 
judgements and assumptions that are inherently 
subjective and dependent on future events, involved in 
preparation of cash flow projections and determination 
of the overall conclusion by the management.
•	
Performed independent sensitivity analysis to test 
the impact of the variations on the cash flows due to 
change in the key assumptions;
•	
Inspected the relevant underlying documents for 
assessing the appropriateness of projected cash 
flow for the next 12 months;
•	
Tested the arithmetical accuracy of the models used 
to prepare the Company's forecasts, which included 
understanding the data inputs, calculations and 
reporting of outputs and performing a sensitivity 
analysis of the assumptions and judgements made 
by the Management in those forecasts;
•	
Assessed the timing of various recurring and 
other events affecting significant cash inflows and 
outflows over the next twelve months and, where 
possible, the foreseeable future; and
•	
Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy of the 
disclosures made by the management in respect of 
going concern in accordance with the applicable 
accounting standards. 
Impairment of investment in equity shares of and Inter 
Corporate Deposits given to SE Forge Limited
As described in Note 11 to the standalone financial 
statements, carrying value of Company’s investment in 
equity shares of SE Forge Limited (SEFL) as at March 31, 
2023 amounted to ₹ 290.73 Crores. Further, as detailed 
in note 13 to the standalone financial statements, inter 
corporate deposits (ICDs) given to SEFL as at March 31, 
2023 amounted to ₹ 25.29 Crores. SEFL has incurred 
losses during the recent years and as at the year 
end its net worth stands substantially eroded which 
is identified as potential impairment indicator by the 
management as per the principles enunciated under Ind 
AS 36, Impairment of Assets (‘Ind AS 36’).
The Company recorded aggregate impairment as on 
31 March 2023 of ₹ 754.23 Crores against these 
investments and Inter Corporate Deposits.
The Management has assessed the recoverability 
of the said investment and ICDs, by carrying out a 
valuation of the subsidiary with the help of an external 
valuation expert. The valuation has been performed 
using discounted cash flow method which requires 
management to make significant estimates and 
assumptions relating to forecast of future business 
performance, and selection of the discount rates to 
determine the recoverable value to be considered for 
impairment testing of the carrying value of above-
mentioned balances.
The recoverable amount of the investment in and Inter 
Corporate Deposits are assessed based on complex 
assumptions that require the management to exercise 
their judgment such as future expected revenue, future 
expected revenue growth rate, gross margins, future 
cash flows, determination of historical trends and the 
most appropriate discount rate. 
Our audit procedures in relation to assessing the 
recoverable amount of investments and ICDs included 
but were not limited to, the following:
•	
Obtained an understanding of process and controls 
implemented by the management to identity 
possible impairment indicators and to determine 
recoverability of amounts from subsidiary company 
and tested the design and operating effectiveness 
of such controls;
•	
Obtained the impairment analysis carried out 
by the management including report of external 
independent valuation expert;
•	
Assessed the professional competence, objectivity 
and capabilities of the external independent 
valuation expert engaged by management to 
determine the enterprise value of SEFL;
•	
Assessed 
the 
valuation 
methodology 
and 
assumptions used by the management's expert to 
estimate the recoverability of investment and ICDs 
with the help of auditor's valuation experts;
•	
Evaluated the appropriateness of assumptions 
applied in determining key inputs such as discount 
rates and terminal growth rate which included 
assumptions based on our knowledge of the 
business and relevant external market conditions;
•	
Tested the arithmetical accuracy of the projections 
and applied independent sensitivity tests to the key 
assumptions mentioned above to determine and 
focus on inputs with high estimation uncertainty; 
and
•	
Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy 
of disclosures made by the management in the 
standalone financial statements in accordance 
with the requirements of applicable accounting 
standards.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
195
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Considering the materiality of the amounts, significant 
degree of judgement and estimates and significant 
auditors attention required to test management’s 
assessment, we have identified this as a key audit 
matter for the current year audit.
Recoverability 
and 
valuation 
of 
allowance 
for 
impairment of overdue trade receivables and other 
financial assets: Power evacuation infrastructure 
receivables (‘PE receivables’)
As described in Note 12 and Note 14 to the standalone 
financial statements, the Company has old outstanding 
trade receivables of ₹ 243.46 Crores for more than 
365 days and PE receivables classified under other 
financial assets of ₹ 72.35 Crores respectively as on 
31 March 2023. 
The Company recognises loss allowance for trade 
receivables and other financial assets at the expected 
credit loss ('ECL') as per the principles enunciated 
under Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments (‘Ind AS 109’). 
Assessment of the recoverability of trade receivables 
and other financial assets together with the related 
ECL is inherently subjective and requires significant 
management judgement which includes repayment 
history and financial position of entities from whom 
these balances are recoverable, terms of underlying 
arrangements, overdue balances, market conditions 
etc. Trade receivables and PE receivables comprises a 
significant portion of the current assets of the Company.
Considering the materiality of the amounts involved 
and significant degree of judgement and subjectivity 
involved in the estimates and assumptions used 
in determining the expected credit loss, we have 
considered this matter as a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included but were not limited to 
the following:
•	
Obtained an understanding of the process adopted 
by the Company in estimating expected credit loss 
including the key inputs and assumptions. Since 
assumptions and parameters are based on historical 
data, we assessed whether historical experience 
was representative of current circumstances and 
was relevant in view of the recent impairment 
losses incurred; 
•	
Assessed and tested the design and operating 
effectiveness of the internal controls over the 
process of estimating recoverability and the 
allowance for impairment on trade receivables and 
PE receivables in accordance with Ind AS 109;
•	
Understanding the key inputs used in the 
provisioning 
model 
by 
the 
Company 
such 
as 
repayment 
history, 
terms 
of 
underlying 
arrangements, 
overdue 
balances, 
market 
conditions, etc;
•	
Tested the methodology applied in the credit 
loss provision calculation by comparing it to the 
requirements of Ind AS 109, and appropriateness 
and reasonableness of the assumptions related to 
credit loss rate including the historical bad-debts 
applied in their assessment of the receivables 
allowance;
•	
Obtained balance confirmation for selected samples 
and verified the reconciliation for differences, if any 
for the confirmations received;
•	
Assessed the recoverability of overdue trade 
receivables and PE receivables through inquiry 
with the management and by obtaining sufficient 
corroborative evidence to support the conclusion;
•	
Assessed the net exposure after considering the 
other liabilities payable such as liquidated damages, 
claims payables to selected trade receivables; 
•	
Tested subsequent settlement of selected trade 
receivables after the balance sheet date; and
•	
Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy 
of disclosures made in the standalone financial 
statements in accordance with the requirements of 
applicable accounting standards.
Annual Report 2022-23
196
Information other than the Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report thereon
6.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises 
the information included in the Management discussion and analysis, Business responsibility Report, Corporate 
Governance report and Directors’ Report including Annexures thereof, but does not include the standalone financial 
statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
	
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
	
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on 
the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are 
required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Standalone Financial 
Statements
7.	
The accompanying standalone financial statements have been approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. The 
Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the 
preparation and presentation of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial 
position, financial performance including other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows of the 
Company in accordance with the Ind AS specified under section 133 of the Act and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation 
and presentation of the financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.
8.	
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, 
or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
9.	
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
10.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from 
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements.
11.	
As part of an audit in accordance with Standards on Auditing, specified under section 143(10) of the Act we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from 
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls;
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
197
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by management;
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern;
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, 
and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation;
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information/financial statements of 
the Company and its branches or the business activities within the Company to express an opinion on the 
financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of financial 
statements of the Company of which we are the independent auditors. For the branches included in the financial 
statements, which have been audited by the branch auditors, such branch auditors remain responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our 
audit opinion.
12.	 We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit.
13.	 We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
14.	 From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about 
the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in 
our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matter
15.	 We did not audit the financial information of two branches included in the standalone financial statements of the 
Company whose financial information reflects total assets of ₹ 170.92 Crores as at 31 March 2023, and the total 
revenues of ₹ 89.54 Crores, total net profit after tax of ₹ 0.37 Crores, total comprehensive income of ₹ 0.37 Crores, 
and cash flows (net) of ₹ 2.05 Crores respectively for the year ended on that date, as considered in the standalone 
financial statements. The financial information have been audited by the branch auditors whose reports have been 
furnished to us by the management, and our opinion on the standalone financial statements, in so far as it relates to 
the amounts and disclosures included in respect of branches, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of section 
143 of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid branches, is based solely on the report of such branch auditors.
	
Our opinion above on the standalone financial statements, and our report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
below, are not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done by and the 
reports of the branch auditors.
16.	 The standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2022 were audited by the 
predecessor auditor, Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP, who have expressed an unmodified opinion on those standalone 
financial statements vide their audit report dated 25 May 2022.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
17.	
As required by section 197(16) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of the reports of the branch 
auditors as referred to in paragraph 15 above, we report that the Company has paid remuneration to its directors 
during the year in accordance with the provisions of and limits laid down under section 197 read with Schedule V to 
the Act.
Annual Report 2022-23
198
18.	 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (‘the Order’) issued by the Central Government of India 
in terms of section 143(11) of the Act we give in the Annexure I a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 
3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
19.	 Further to our comments in Annexure I, as required by section 143(3) of the Act based on our audit, and on the 
consideration of the reports of the branch auditors as referred to in paragraph 15 above, we report, to the extent 
applicable, that:
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purpose of our audit of the accompanying standalone financial statements;
b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears 
from our examination of those books and proper returns adequate for the purposes of our audit have been 
received from the branches not visited by us;
c)	
The reports on the accounts of the branch offices of the Company audited under section 143(8) of the Act by 
the branch auditors have been sent to us and have been properly dealt with by us in preparing this report;
d)	
The standalone financial statements dealt with by this report are in agreement with the books of account and 
with the returns received from the branches not visited by us;
e)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with Ind AS specified under section 133 
of the Act;
f)	
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors and taken on record by the Board of 
Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31 March 2023 from being appointed as a director in terms 
of section 164(2) of the Act;
g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the 
Company as on 31 March, 2023 and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report 
in Annexure II wherein we have expressed an unmodified opinion; and
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with rule 11 of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of the reports of the branch 
auditors as referred to in paragraph 15 above:
i.	
The Company, as detailed in note 40 to the standalone financial statements, has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position as at 31 March 2023;
ii.	
The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were 
any material foreseeable losses as at 31 March 2023;
iii.	
There were no amounts which were required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Company during the year ended 31 March 2023;
iv.	
a.	
The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, on the date of this 
audit report as disclosed in note 48(g) to the standalone financial statements, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or securities premium or any other 
sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (‘the intermediaries’), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (‘the Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
b.	
The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, on the date of this 
audit report as disclosed in note 48(h) to the standalone financial statements, no funds have been 
received by the Company from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘the Funding 
Parties’), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, 
whether directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
199
	
c.	
Based on such audit procedures performed as considered reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the management 
representations under sub-clauses (a) and (b) above contain any material misstatement.
	
v.	
The Company has not declared or paid any dividend during the year ended 31 March 2023.
	
vi.	
Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 requires all companies which use accounting 
software for maintaining their books of account, to use such an accounting software which has a feature 
of audit trail, with effect from the financial year beginning on 1 April, 2023 and accordingly, reporting under 
Rule 11(g) of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended) is not applicable for the current 
financial year.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
UDIN: 23101797BGXFAQ5619
Place: Pune
Date: 30 May 2023 
Annual Report 2022-23
200
Referred to in Paragraph 18 of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of Suzlon Energy 
Limited on the standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the Company and the books of account and 
records examined by us in the normal course of audit and based on the consideration of the reports of the branch 
auditors, and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we report that:
(i)	
(a)	 (A) 	 The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and 
situation of property, plant and equipment and right of use assets and investment property.
(B) 	 The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
(b)	 The Company has a regular programme of physical verification of its property, plant and equipment and right 
of use assets and investment property under which the assets are physically verified in a phased manner over 
a period of three years, which in our opinion, is reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the 
nature of its assets. In accordance with this programme, certain property, plant and equipment and right of use 
assets and investment property were verified during the year and no material discrepancies were noticed on 
such verification.
(c) 	 The title deeds of all the immovable properties (including investment properties) held by the Company (other 
than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the 
lessee) disclosed in note 6 to the standalone financial statements are held in the name of the Company.
(d) 	 The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment including right of use assets or intangible 
assets during the year.
(e) 	 No proceedings have been initiated or are pending against the Company for holding any benami property 
under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (as amended) and rules made thereunder.
(ii)	
(a)	 The management has conducted physical verification of inventory at reasonable intervals during the year, 
except for inventory lying with third parties. In our opinion, the coverage and procedure of such verification 
by the management is appropriate and no discrepancies of 10% or more in the aggregate for each class of 
inventory were noticed as compared to book records. In respect of inventory lying with third parties, these 
have substantially been confirmed by the third parties.
	
(b)	 The Company has been sanctioned a non-fund based working capital limit in excess of ₹ 5 Crores by banks 
based on the security of current assets. The Company has not filed the quarterly return /statement with such 
banks as required by the sanction letter since the time period to file has not yet lapsed and accordingly, we 
are unable to comment on discrepancies, if any, with the books of account of the Company for the respective 
periods.
(iii)	 (a)	 The Company has not provided any guarantee or given any security or granted any advances in the nature of 
loans during the year. The Company has provided loans to Subsidiaries during the year as per details given 
below:
Particulars
Loans 
(₹ in Crores)
Aggregate amount provided/granted during the year:
- Subsidiaries
547.81
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date in respect of above cases
- Subsidiaries
1,244.39
(b)	 The Company has not provided any guarantee or given any security or granted any advances in the nature of 
loans during the year. In our opinion, and according to the information and explanations given to us, terms and 
conditions of the grant of all loans are, prima facie, not prejudicial to the interest of the Company.
(c)	 In respect of loans and advances in the nature of loans granted by the Company, the schedule of repayment 
of principal and payment of interest has been stipulated and principal amount including interest has not fallen 
due for repayment during the year.
Annexure I
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
201
(d)	 There is no overdue amount in respect of loans or advances in the nature of loans granted to such companies, 
firms, LLPs or other parties.
(e)	 The Company has not granted any loan or advance in the nature of loan which has fallen due during the year. 
Further, no fresh loans were granted to any party to settle the overdue loans/advances in nature of loan that 
existed as at the beginning of the year.
(f)	
The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans, which are repayable on demand 
or without specifying any terms or period of repayment.
(iv) 	 In our opinion, and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has complied with the 
provisions of section 186 of the Act in respect of loans and investments made and guarantees provided by it, as 
applicable. Further, the Company has not entered into any transaction covered under section 185 and section 186 
of the Act in respect security provided by it.
(v)	 In our opinion, and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not accepted any 
deposits or there are no amounts which have been deemed to be deposits within the meaning of sections 73 to 76 
of the Act and the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 (as amended). Accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(vi)	 The Central Government has specified maintenance of cost records under sub-section (1) of section 148 of the Act. 
For such products, we have broadly reviewed the books of account maintained by the Company pursuant to the 
Rules made by the Central Government for the maintenance of cost records under the aforesaid section, and are of 
the opinion that, prima facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been made and maintained. However, we 
have not made a detailed examination of the cost records with a view to determine whether they are accurate or 
complete.
(vii)	 (a)	 In our opinion, and according to the information and explanations given to us, undisputed statutory dues 
including goods and services tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax, duty of customs, 
cess and other material statutory dues, as applicable, have generally been regularly deposited with the 
appropriate authorities by the Company, though there have been delays in a few cases pertaining to provident 
fund and profession tax. Further, no undisputed amounts payable in respect thereof were outstanding at the 
year-end for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no statutory dues referred in sub-clause 
(a) which have not been deposited with the appropriate authorities on account of any dispute except for the 
following
Name of  
the statute
Nature 
of dues
Gross 
Amount 
(₹ in 
Crores)
Amount 
paid under 
Protest 
(₹ in 
Crores)
Financial year 
to which the 
amount relates 
Forum where  
dispute is pending
Remark
Finance Act, 1994
Service 
tax
94.55
-
2007-08 to 
2011-12
The Supreme Court of 
India
-
5.93
-
2011-12 to 
2012-13
The Customs Excise 
and Service Tax 
Appellate Tribunal
-
0.05
-
2010-11
-
29.55
-
2012-13 and 
2014-15
-
Customs Act, 
1962
Custom 
duty
0.38
-
2015-16
The Commissioner of 
Customs (Appeals)
-
2.87
-
2019-20
High Court, Chennai
-
0.01
-
2014-15
The Customs Excise 
and Service Tax 
Appellate Tribunal
-
0.49
-
2014-15
-
0.14
-
2014-15
-
0.03
-
2021-22
-
3.68
-
2020-21
-
Annual Report 2022-23
202
(viii)	According to the information and explanations given to us, no transactions were surrendered or disclosed as income 
during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) which have not been previously 
recorded in the books of account. 
(ix)	 (a)	 According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted in repayment of its 
loans or borrowings or in the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given to us including representation received from the 
management of the Company, and on the basis of our audit procedures, we report that the Company has 
not been declared a willful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority. 
	
(c)	 In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, money raised by way of term 
loans during the year were applied for the purposes for which these were obtained. 
	
(d)	 In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, and on an overall examination of 
the financial statements of the Company, funds raised by the Company on short term basis have, prima facie, 
not been utilised for long term purposes. 
	
(e)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the financial 
statements of the Company, the Company has not taken any funds from any entity or person on account of or 
to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures. 
	
(f)	
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has raised loans during the year on 
the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries as per details below. Further the Company has not defaulted in 
repayment of such loans raised.
Nature of  
loan taken
Name of 
lender
Amount of 
loan availed 
(₹ in Crores)
Name of the subsidiary
Relation
Details of security 
pledged
Term loan and 
non-fund based 
limits 
REC Limited
3,553
Suzlon Global Services 
Limited and Suzlon Gujarat 
Wind Park Limited
Wholly owned 
subsidiaries
Pledge of 100% of 
fully paid-up equity 
capital
Term loan
IREDA Limited
500
(x)	 (a)	 The Company has not raised any money by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt 
instruments), during the year. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records 
of the Company, the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or (fully, 
partially or optionally) convertible debentures during the year. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(x)(b) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xi)	 (a)	 To the best of our knowledge and according to the information and explanations given to us, no fraud by the 
Company or no material fraud on the Company has been noticed or reported during the period covered by our 
audit.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given to us including the representation made to us by the 
management of the Company, no report under sub-section 12 of section 143 of the Act has been filed by the 
auditors in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, with the 
Central Government for the period covered by our audit. 
	
(c)	 The whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the year, as shared with us by the management 
have been considered by us while determining the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures.
(xii)	 The Company is not a Nidhi Company and the Nidhi Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it. Accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
 (xiii)	In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, all transactions entered into by the 
Company with the related parties are in compliance with sections 177 and 188 of the Act, where applicable. Further, 
the details of such related party transactions have been disclosed in the standalone financial statements, as required 
under Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24, Related Party Disclosures specified in Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules 2015, as amended, as prescribed under section 133 of the Act.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
203
(xiv)	(a)	 In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has an internal audit 
system as per the provisions of section 138 of the Act which is commensurate with the size and nature of its 
business.
	
(b)	 We have considered the reports issued by the Internal Auditors of the Company till date for the period 
under audit.
(xv)	 According to the information and explanation given to us, the Company has not entered into any non-cash 
transactions with its directors or persons connected with its directors and accordingly, reporting under clause 
3(xv) of the Order with respect to compliance with the provisions of section 192 of the Act is not applicable to the 
Company.
(xvi)	The Company is not required to be registered under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, 
reporting under clauses 3(xvi)(a), (b) and (c) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
(d) 	 Based on the information and explanations given to us and as represented by the management of the Company, the 
Group (as defined in Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) does not have any CIC.
(xvii)The Company has incurred cash losses in the current financial year and in the immediately preceding financial year 
amounting to ₹ 96.10 Crores and ₹ 118.06 Crores respectively. 
(xviii)There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xviii) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xix) 	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and 
expected dates of realisation of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying 
the standalone financial statements, our knowledge of the plans of the Board of Directors and management and 
based on our examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which 
causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report indicating that Company 
is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period 
of one year from the balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability 
of the company. We further state that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and 
we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the 
balance sheet date, will get discharged by the company as and when they fall due.
(xx)	 According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company does not meet the criteria as specified 
under sub-section (1) of section 135 of the Act read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014 and accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xx) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
 (xxi) The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not applicable in respect of audit of standalone financial statements 
of the Company. Accordingly, no comment has been included in respect of said clause under this report.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
PuneMembership No.: 101797
UDIN: 23101797BGXFAQ5619
Place: 
Date: 30 May 2023
Annual Report 2022-23
204
To the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of Suzlon Energy Limited on the standalone 
financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023
Independent Auditor’s Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the standalone financial statements 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of Suzlon Energy Limited (‘the Company’) as at 
and for the year ended 31 March 2023, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Company as at that date.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for Internal Financial Controls
2.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements based on internal control over financial reporting criteria established by 
the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in Guidance note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (‘the Guidance Note’) issued by Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (‘ICAI’). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of the Company’s 
business, including adherence to the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection 
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of 
reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial 
Statements
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing issued by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, and the Guidance Note 
on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (‘the Guidance Note’) issued by the ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the 
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements includes obtaining an understanding of such internal financial 
controls, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
6.	
A company's internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements include those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions 
of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that 
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management 
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of 
unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the 
financial statements.
Annexure II
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
205
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud 
may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance 
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements and such controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2023, based on the criteria for 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements established by the Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance note issued by the ICAI.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
UDIN: 23101797BGXFAQ5619
Place: Pune
Date: 30 May 2023
Annual Report 2022-23
206
Particulars
Notes
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
6 
 425.07 
 466.78 
Right-of-use assets
38 
 9.19 
 58.96 
Capital work-in-progress
8 
 0.87 
 7.63 
Investment properties
9 
 29.21 
 30.86 
Goodwill
7 
 - 
 - 
Other intangible assets
7 
 62.90 
 124.70 
Intangible assets under development
10 
 3.43 
 4.42 
Investments in an associate
11 
 - 
 - 
Financial assets
	
Investments
11 
 1,753.90 
 1,751.98 
	
Trade receivables
12 
 - 
 - 
	
Loans
13 
 1,244.42 
 52.51 
	
Other financial assets
14 
 383.39 
 228.67 
	
Other non-current assets
15 
 71.31 
 69.29 
	
 3,983.69 
 2,795.80 
Current assets
 Inventories
16 
 760.42 
 1,167.47 
 Financial assets
	
 Trade receivables
12 
 546.32 
 667.63 
	
 Cash and cash equivalents
17 
 290.63 
 350.75 
	
 Bank balance other than above
17 
 - 
 59.27 
	
 Loans
13 
 0.61 
 52.35 
	
 Other financial assets
14 
 75.50 
 76.36 
 Current tax assets, net
 - 
 0.06 
 Other current assets
15 
 363.01 
 410.03 
 2,036.49 
 2,783.92 
Assets held for sale
18 
 27.81 
 95.54 
Total assets
 6,047.99 
 5,675.26 
Equity and liabilities
Equity 
Equity share capital
19 
 2,454.40 
 1,843.49 
Other equity
20 
 (1,035.01)
 (5,735.58)
 1,419.39 
 (3,892.09)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
	
Borrowings
21 
 2,008.98 
 3,774.69 
	
Lease liabilities
38 
 4.99 
 43.14 
	
Other financial liabilities
22 
 3.39 
 2,351.73 
Provisions
23 
 144.83 
 112.96 
Other non-current liabilities
24 
 0.48 
 0.19 
 2,162.67 
 6,282.71 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
	
Borrowings
21 
 323.02 
 486.54 
	
Lease liabilities
38 
 5.21 
 9.87 
	
Trade payables
25 
	
	
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 2.70 
 58.98 
	
	
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 1,059.39 
 1,756.96 
Other financial liabilities
22 
 220.99 
 211.09 
Contract liabilities
 386.66 
 353.99 
Other current liabilities
24 
 16.76 
 11.95 
Provisions
23 
 451.20 
 395.26 
 2,465.93 
 3,284.64 
Liabilities directly associated with the assets held for sale
18 
 - 
 - 
Total equity and liabilities
 6,047.99 
 5,675.26 
Summary of significant accounting policies
2.3
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Suzlon Energy Limited
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
J. P. Chalasani
Group Chief Executive Officer
Himanshu Mody
Group Chief Financial Officer
Geetanjali S. Vaidya 
Company Secretary 
Membership No.: A18026 
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Balance sheet as at March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
207
Particulars
Notes
 March 31, 2023 
 March 31, 2022 
Income
Revenue from contracts with customers
26
 3,538.14 
 3,975.41 
Other operating income
 52.30 
 64.63 
Other income
27
 192.22 
 63.02 
Total income
 3,782.66 
 4,103.06 
Expenses
Cost of raw materials, components consumed and services rendered
28
 2,662.97 
 3,084.33 
Purchase of stock-in-trade
28
 - 
 - 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, semi-finished goods and  
work-in-progress
28
 77.53 
 9.67 
Employee benefits expense
29
 252.51 
 225.62 
Finance costs
30
 441.56 
 777.08 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
31
 190.04 
 185.13 
Other expenses
32
 537.37 
 651.02 
Total expenses
 4,161.98 
 4,932.85 
Profit / (loss) before exceptional items and tax
 (379.32)
 (829.79)
Exceptional items 
33
 (2,542.08)
 82.87 
Profit / (loss) before tax 
 2,162.76 
 (912.66)
Tax expense
34
 - 
 - 
Profit / (loss) after tax 
 2,162.76 
 (912.66)
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Re-measurements of the defined benefit plans
35
 (5.71)
 1.67 
Income tax effect on the above
 - 
 - 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 (5.71)
 1.67 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 2,157.05 
 (910.99)
Earnings/ (loss) per equity share (EPS)
36
- Basic earnings per share [Nominal value of share ₹ 2 (₹ 2)]
 2.01 
 (0.98)
- Diluted earnings per share [Nominal value of share ₹ 2 (₹ 2)]
 2.01 
 (0.98)
Summary of significant accounting policies
2.3
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Suzlon Energy Limited
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
J. P. Chalasani
Group Chief Executive Officer
Himanshu Mody
Group Chief Financial Officer
Geetanjali S. Vaidya 
Company Secretary 
Membership No.: A18026 
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Statement of profit and loss for the year ended March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2022-23
208
a.	
Equity share capital (refer Note 19)
Equity shares, subscribed and fully, partly paid
No. in Crore
₹ in Crore
At April 01, 2021
 850.80 
 1,701.60 
Movement in share capital
 70.94 
 141.89 
At March 31, 2022
 921.74 
 1,843.49 
Movement in share capital
 325.57 
 610.91 
At March 31, 2023
 1,247.31 
 2,454.40 
b.	
Other equity
Share 
application 
pending 
allotment
Equity 
component 
of 
compound 
financial 
instruments
Equity 
component 
of 
compulsory 
convertible 
debentures
Capital  
reserve
Capital  
redemption 
reserve
General 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Capital 
contribution
Retained  
earnings
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrants
Total   
As at April 1, 2021
 12.99 
 41.65 
 49.98 
 23.30 
 15.00 
 908.56 
 9,563.40 
 5,466.90 
 (21,994.05)
 231.84 
 (5,680.43)
Profit/ (loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (912.66)
 - 
 (912.66)
Other comprehensive income (refer Note 35)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.67 
 - 
 1.67 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (910.99)
 - 
 (910.99)
Reversal of impairment loss
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 899.00 
 - 
 899.00 
Conversion of July 2019 FCCB's
 (12.23)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.62 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3.61)
Gain on cancellation of July 2019 FCCB's
 (0.76)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.76)
Conversion of August 2032 FCCB's
 - 
 (27.72)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 29.73 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.01 
Conversion of compulsory convertible debentures
 - 
 - 
 (49.98)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9.18 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (40.80)
As at March 31, 2022
 - 
 13.93 
 - 
 23.30 
 15.00 
 908.56 
 9,610.93 
 5,466.90  (22,006.04)
 231.84 
 (5,735.58)
Statement of changes in equity for the year ended March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
209
Share 
application 
pending 
allotment
Equity 
component 
of 
compound 
financial 
instruments
Equity 
component 
of 
compulsory 
convertible 
debentures
Capital  
reserve
Capital  
redemption 
reserve
General 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Capital 
contribution
Retained  
earnings
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrants
Total   
As at April 1, 2022
 - 
 13.93 
 - 
 23.30 
 15.00 
 908.56 
 9,610.93 
 5,466.90 
 (22,006.04)
 231.84 
 (5,735.58)
Profit/ (loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,162.76 
 - 
 2,162.76 
Other comprehensive income (refer Note 35)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (5.71)
 - 
 (5.71)
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,157.05 
 - 
 2,157.05 
Reversal of impairment loss
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,500.79 
 - 
 1,500.79 
Extinguishment of warrants (refer Note 4)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 231.84 
 - 
 (231.84)
 - 
Conversion of August 2032 FCCB's (refer Note 19.6)
 - 
 (13.93)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13.93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Premium on conversion of optionally convertible debentures (refer 
Note 4)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 402.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 402.86 
Premium on issue of Rights equity shares (refer Note 19.7)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 659.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 659.66 
Share issue expenses
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (19.79)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (19.79)
As at March 31, 2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 23.30 
 15.00 
 908.56 
 10,667.59 
 5,698.74 
 (18,348.20)
 - 
 (1,035.01)
Refer Note 20 for nature and purpose of reserves 
Summary of significant accounting policies (refer Note 2.3)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Suzlon Energy Limited
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
J. P. Chalasani
Group Chief Executive Officer
Himanshu Mody
Group Chief Financial Officer
Geetanjali S. Vaidya 
Company Secretary 
Membership No.: A18026 
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Statement of changes in equity for the year ended March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2022-23
210
Particulars
 March 31, 2023 
 March 31, 2022 
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit/ (loss) before tax
 2,162.76 
 (912.66)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 190.04 
 185.13 
Exceptional items 
 (2,542.08)
 82.87 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, net
 1.05 
 6.63 
Gain on sale of investment
 (0.01)
 - 
Other income
 (203.30)
 (75.37)
Interest expenses and other borrowing cost
 408.11 
 750.90 
Operation, maintenance and warranty expenditure
 99.33 
 155.25 
Liquidated damages expenditure
 34.61 
 47.07 
Performance guarantee expenditure
 19.32 
 3.29 
Bad debts written off
 2.45 
 2.94 
Impairment allowance/ (reversal)
 (5.89)
 (1.11)
Allowance/ (reversal) for doubtful debts and advances, net
 (7.95)
 17.83 
Capital work-in-progress written off
 - 
 17.49 
Exchange differences, net
 (0.82)
 3.88 
Operating profit / (loss) before working capital changes
 157.62 
 284.14 
Movements in working capital
(Increase)/ decrease in financial assets and other assets
 73.87 
 (14.91)
(Increase)/ decrease in trade receivables
 124.99 
 (300.19)
(Increase)/ decrease in inventories
 407.05 
 (305.53)
(Decrease)/ increase in other liabilities, financial liabilities and provisions
 (792.56)
 261.53 
Cash (used in) / generated from operating activities
 (29.03)
 (74.96)
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds)
 (2.12)
 0.50 
Net cash (used in)/ generated from operating activities 
A
 (31.15)
 (74.46)
Cash flow from investing activities
Payments for purchase of property, plant and equipment  
including capital work-in-progress and capital advances
 (81.98)
 (52.16)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
 85.52 
 0.63 
Proceeds from sale of stake in joint ventures
 64.23 
 - 
Income from investment properties
 11.08 
 11.59 
Inter-corporate deposits repaid, net
 284.84 
 1,170.95 
Interest received
 43.98 
 48.70 
Net cash (used in) / generated from investing activities
B
 407.67 
 1,179.71 
Statement of cash flows for the year ended March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
211
Particulars
 March 31, 2023 
 March 31, 2022 
Cash flow from financing activities
Repayment of long-term borrowings
 (4,135.33)
 (376.40)
Proceeds from long-term borrowings
 2,960.96 
 - 
Proceeds/ (repayment) from short term-borrowings, net
 - 
 (200.00)
Proceeds from issuance of share capital including premium, net of expenses
 1,079.67 
 - 
Interest and other borrowing cost paid
 (401.21)
 (312.48)
Net cash (used in) / generated from financing activities
C
 (495.91)
 (888.88)
Net (decrease)/ increase in cash and cash equivalents
A+B+C
 (119.39)
 216.37 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year
 410.02 
 193.65 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year
 290.63 
 410.02 
Components of cash and cash equivalents
 As at 
March 31, 2023 
 As at 
March 31, 2022 
Balances with banks
 290.58 
 350.58 
Bank balance other than above
 - 
 59.27 
Cash on hand
 0.05 
 0.17 
Total
 290.63 
 410.02 
Summary of significant accounting policies (refer Note 2.3)
The figures in brackets represent outflows.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Suzlon Energy Limited
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
J. P. Chalasani
Group Chief Executive Officer
Himanshu Mody
Group Chief Financial Officer
Geetanjali S. Vaidya 
Company Secretary 
Membership No.: A18026 
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Statement of cash flows for the year ended March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2022-23
212
1.	
Company information
	
Suzlon Energy Limited (‘SEL’ or ‘the Company’) having CIN: L40100GJ1995PLC025447 is a public company domiciled 
in India and is incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act applicable in India. Its shares are listed on 
two recognised stock exchanges in India. The registered office of the Company is located at “Suzlon”, 5 Shrimali 
Society, Near Shree Krishna Complex, Navrangpura, Ahmedabad – 380 009, India. The principal place of business 
is its headquarters located at One Earth, Hadapsar, Pune – 411 028, India.
	
The Company is primarily engaged in the business of manufacturing of Wind Turbine Generators (‘WTGs’) and sale 
of related components of various capacities.
	
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on May 30, 2023.
2.	
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies
	
2.1	 Basis of preparation
	
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS) notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from time to 
time) and presentation requirements of Division II of Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS compliant 
Schedule III), as applicable to the financial statements.
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial 
instruments and certain financial assets and liabilities which have been measured at fair value [refer accounting 
policy regarding financial instruments 2.3(q)].
	
The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (₹) and all values are rounded to the nearest Crore 
(` 0,000,000) up to two decimals, except when otherwise indicated.
	
The Company has prepared the financial statements on the basis that it will continue to operate as a going 
concern.
	
2.2	 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
	
Few amendments apply for the first time for the year ended March 31, 2023, but do not have an impact on the 
financial statements of the Company. The Company intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they 
become effective.
	
2.3	 Summary of significant accounting policies
	
a.	
Current versus non-current classification
	
	
	
The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current / non-current 
classification. An asset is treated as current when it is:
	
•	
Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal operating cycle
	
•	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading
	
•	
Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting period, or
	
•	
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at 
least twelve months after the reporting period.
	
	
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
	
	
A liability is current when:
	
•	
It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle
	
•	
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading
	
•	
It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period, or
	
•	
There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after 
the reporting period.
Notes to financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
213
	
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. The Company 
classifies all other liabilities as non-current.
	
	
	
The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in 
cash and cash equivalents. The Company has identified twelve months as its operating cycle.
	
	
b.	
Foreign currencies
	
	
The Company’s financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (₹), which is also the Company’s 
functional currency.
	
	
	
Transactions and balances
	
	
Foreign currency transactions are recorded in the reporting currency, by applying to the foreign currency 
amount the exchange rate between the reporting currency and the foreign currency at the date of the 
transaction.
	
	
Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated using the exchange rate prevailing at the reporting date. 
Exchange differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in statement 
of profit and loss.
	
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair 
value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is 
determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value is treated 
in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item (i.e., translation 
differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income (‘OCI’) or 
profit or loss are also recognised in OCI or profit or loss, respectively.
	
	
c.	
Fair value measurement
	
	
The Company measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
	
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based 
on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
	
	
•	
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
	
	
•	
In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
	
	
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company.
	
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would 
use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best 
interest.
	
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
	
	
The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient 
data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising 
the use of unobservable inputs.
	
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are 
categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
	
	
•	
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
	
•	
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable.
	
•	
Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is unobservable.
Annual Report 2022-23
214
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the 
Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing 
categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a 
whole) at the end of each reporting period.
	
The Company management determines the policies and procedures for recurring and non-recurring 
fair value measurement. Involvement of external valuers is decided upon annually by management. The 
management decides after discussion with external valuers, about valuation technique and inputs to use 
for each case.
	
At each reporting date, the Company’s management analyses the movements in the values of assets and 
liabilities which are required to be re-measured or re-assessed as per the Company’s accounting policies. 
For this analysis, the Company verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the 
information in the valuation computation to contracts and other relevant documents.
	
The Company, in conjunction with the Company’s external valuers, also compares the change in the 
fair value of each asset and liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change is 
reasonable.
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities 
on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value 
hierarchy as explained above.
	
This note summarises accounting policy for fair value. Other fair value related disclosures are given in the 
relevant notes.
	
•	
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy [refer Note 44];
	
•	
Investment properties [refer Note 2.3 (i)];
	
•	
Financial instruments (including those carried at amortised cost) [refer Note 2.3(q)].
	
	
d.	
Revenue from contracts with customers
	
	
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised at the point in time when control of the goods or 
services is transferred to the customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company 
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
	
	
	
Sale of goods
	
	
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised in the statement of profit and loss at the point in time when 
control of the goods is transferred to the buyer as per the terms of the respective sales order, generally 
on dispatch of the goods. Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance obligation is measured at the 
amount of transaction price (net of variable consideration) allocated to that performance obligation. The 
transaction price of goods sold and services rendered is net of variable consideration on account of 
various discounts and schemes offered by the Company as part of the contract.
	
	
The Company considers whether there are other promises in the contract that are separate performance 
obligations to which a portion of the transaction price needs to be allocated (e.g., warranties,). In 
determining the transaction price for the sale of equipment, the Company considers the effects of variable 
consideration and consideration payable to the customer (if any).
	
	
i.	
Variable consideration
	
	
If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount, the Company estimates the amount of 
consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the goods to the customer. The 
contracts for sale of equipment provide customers with a right for penalty in case of delayed delivery or 
commissioning and in some contracts compensation for performance shortfall expected in future over the 
life of the guarantee assured.
	
	
ii.	
Significant financing component
	
	
Generally, the Company receives short-term advances from its customers. Using the practical expedient 
in Ind AS 115, the Company does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a 
significant financing component if it expects, at contract inception, that the period between the transfer 
of the promised good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will 
be one year or less.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
215
	
	
iii.	
Cost to obtain a contract
	
	
The Company pays sales commission for contracts obtained. The Company has elected to apply the 
optional practical expedient for costs to obtain a contract which allows the Company to immediately 
expense sales commissions because the amortisation period that the Company otherwise would have 
used is one year or less.
	
	
	
Warranty obligations
	
	
The Company typically provides warranties for operations and maintenance that existed at the time of 
sale. These assurance-type warranties are accounted for under Ind AS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities 
and Contingent Assets. Refer to the accounting policy on warranty provisions in section (o) Provisions.
	
	
The Company provides standard period warranty for all contracts and extended warranty beyond 
standard in few contracts at the time of sale. These service-type warranties are bundled together with 
the sale of equipment. Contracts for bundled sales of goods and a service-type warranty comprise two 
performance obligations because the promises to transfer the equipment and to provide the service-type 
warranty are capable of being distinct. Using the relative stand-alone selling price method, a portion 
of the transaction price is allocated to the service-type warranty and recognised as a contract liability. 
Revenue is recognised over the period in which the service-type warranty is provided based on the time 
elapsed.
	
	
	
Operation and maintenance income (‘OMS’)
	
	
Revenues from operation and maintenance contracts are recognised over the period of the contract 
and measured using output method because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the 
benefits provided to them.
	
	
	
Power evacuation infrastructure facilities
	
	
Revenue from power evacuation infrastructure facilities is recognised upon commissioning and electrical 
installation of the WTG to the said facilities followed by approval for commissioning of WTG from the 
concerned authorities.
	
	
	
Land revenue
	
	
Revenue from land lease activity is recognised upon the transfer of leasehold rights to the customers. 
Revenue from sale of land / right to sale land is recognised at the point in time when control of goods is 
transferred to the customer as per the terms of the respective sales order. Revenue from land development 
is recognised upon rendering of the service as per the terms of the respective sales order.
	
	
	
Sale of services
	
	
Revenue from sale of services is recognised in the statement of profit and loss as and when the services 
are rendered.
	
	
	
Contract balances
	
	
	
i.	
Contract assets
	
	
	
A contract asset is the right to consideration in exchange for goods or services transferred to the 
customer.
	
	
If the Company performs by transferring goods or services to a customer before the customer pays 
consideration or before payment is due, a contract asset is recognised for the earned consideration 
that is conditional.
	
	
	
ii.	
Trade receivables
	
	
A receivable represents the Company’s right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional (i.e., 
only the passage of time is required before payment of the consideration is due). Refer to accounting 
policies of financial assets in section (q) Financial instruments – initial recognition and subsequent 
measurement.
	
	
	
iii.	
Contract liabilities
	
	
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the Company 
has received consideration (or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer. If a customer 
pays consideration before the Company transfers goods or services to the customer, a contract 
liability is recognised when the payment is made or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). 
Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Company performs under the contract.
Annual Report 2022-23
216
	
	
	
	
Interest income
	
	
	
For all financial assets measured at amortised cost, interest income is recorded using the effective 
interest rate (EIR). EIR is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or 
receipts over the expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to 
the gross carrying amount of the financial asset or to the amortised cost of a financial liability. When 
calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates the expected cash flows by considering 
all the contractual terms of the financial instrument (for example, prepayment, extension, call and 
similar options) but does not consider the expected credit losses. Interest income is included in other 
income in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
e.	
Government grants and subsidies
	
	
Grants and subsidies from the government are recognised when there is reasonable assurance that (i) the 
Company will comply with the conditions attached to them, and (ii) the grant / subsidy will be received.
	
	
When the grant or subsidy relates to revenue, it is recognised as income on a systematic basis in the 
statement of profit and loss over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs, which they 
are intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to an asset, it is recognised as deferred income and 
released to income in equal amounts over the expected useful life of the related asset.
	
	
When the Company receives grants of non-monetary assets, the asset and the grant are recorded at fair 
value amounts and released to profit or loss over the expected useful life in a pattern of consumption of 
the benefit of the underlying asset i.e. by equal annual instalments. When loans or similar assistance are 
provided by governments or related institutions, with an interest rate below the current applicable market 
rate, the effect of this favourable interest is regarded as a government grant. The loan or assistance is 
initially recognised and measured at fair value and the government grant is measured as the difference 
between the initial carrying value of the loan and the proceeds received. The loan is subsequently 
measured as per the accounting policy applicable to financial liabilities.
	
	
f.	
Taxes
	
	
	
Current income tax
	
	
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or 
paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that 
are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date.
	
	
Current income tax relating to items recognised outside statement of profit and loss is recognised either in 
other comprehensive income or in equity. Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying 
transaction either in OCI or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates the positions taken in 
the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation 
and establishes provisions where appropriate.
	
	
	
Deferred tax
	
	
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet method on temporary differences between the 
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the 
reporting date.
	
	
Deferred tax liabilities (‘DTL’) are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except:
	
•	
When the DTL arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction 
that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting 
profit nor taxable profit or loss.
	
•	
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates 
and interests in joint ventures, when the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be 
controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
	
	
Deferred tax assets (‘DTA’) are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward 
of unused tax credits and any unused tax losses. DTA are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry 
forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except:
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
217
	
•	
When the DTA relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition 
of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the 
transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
	
•	
In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint ventures, DTA is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that 
the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available 
against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
	
	
The carrying amount of DTA is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the DTA to be utilised. 
Unrecognised DTA is re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has 
become probable that future taxable profits will allow the DTA to be recovered.
	
	
DTA and DTL are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the reporting date. DTA and DTL are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current 
tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the 
same taxation authority.
	
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised either in other comprehensive 
income or in equity.
	
	
g.	
Non-current assets held for sale
	
	
Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising of assets and liabilities are classified as ‘held for 
sale’ if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use and a sale is considered high probable to be concluded within 12 months from the balance 
sheet date.
	
	
Such non-current assets or disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell. Non-current assets including those that are part of a disposal group held for sale 
are not depreciated or amortised while they are classified as held for sale.
	
	
h.	
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’)
	
	
PPE are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment loss, if any. Such 
cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment, transportation cost and borrowing 
costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of 
plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Company depreciates them separately 
based on their specific useful lives.
	
	
Capital work-in-progress comprises of the cost of PPE that are not yet ready for their intended use as at` 
the balance sheet date.
	
	
Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant 
and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair and maintenance 
costs are recognised in the statement of profit and loss when they are incurred.
	
	
Depreciation is calculated on the written down value method (‘WDV’) based on the useful lives and 
residual values estimated by the management in accordance with Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 
as follows. The identified components are depreciated separately over their useful lives; the remaining 
components are depreciated over the life of the principal PPE.
Type of asset
Useful lives (years)
Buildings
28 to 58
Plant and machinery
15 to 22
Moulds
15 years or useful life 
based on usage, whichever 
is higher
Wind research and measuring equipment
3
Computers and office equipment
3 to 5
Furniture & fixtures and vehicles
10
Annual Report 2022-23
218
	
	
The Company, based on technical assessment made by technical expert and management estimate, 
depreciates certain items over estimated useful lives which are different from the useful life prescribed in 
Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. The management believes that these estimated useful lives are 
realistic and reflect fair approximation of the period over which the assets are likely to be used.
	
	
Gains or losses arising from de recognition of PPE are measured as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset on the date of disposal and are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss when the asset is derecognised.
	
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of PPE are reviewed at each financial year 
end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
	
	
i.	
Investment properties
	
	
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment loss, if any.
	
	
The cost includes the cost of replacing parts and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if 
the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of the investment properties are required to be 
replaced at intervals, the Company depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives. All 
other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in statement of profit and loss as incurred.
	
	
The Company depreciates building component of investment property over 58 years from the date of 
original purchase / date of capitalisation. Though the Company measures investment properties using 
cost based measurement, the fair value of investment properties is disclosed in the notes.
	
	
Investment properties are derecognised either when they have been disposed of or when they are 
permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from their disposal. The 
difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is recognised in 
statement of profit and loss in the period of de-recognition.
	
	
j.	
Goodwill and Other Intangible assets
	
	
	
Goodwill
	
	
Goodwill represents the excess of consideration transferred, together with the amount of non-controlling 
interest in the acquiree, over the fair value of the Company’s share of identifiable net assets acquired. 
Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
	
	
	
Other Intangible assets
	
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible 
assets acquired in a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. Following initial 
recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are 
not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in statement of profit and loss in the year in which 
the expenditure is incurred.
	
	
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the useful economic life which generally does 
not exceed five years and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible 
asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method are reviewed at least at the 
end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption 
of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or 
method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
	
	
Gains or losses arising from de-recognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between 
the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss when the asset is derecognised.
	
	
	
Research and development costs
	
	
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditures on an individual project are 
recognised as an intangible asset when the Company can demonstrate:
	
•	
The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use 
or sale,
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
219
	
•	
Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset,
	
•	
How the asset will generate future economic benefits,
	
•	
The availability of resources to complete the asset,
	
•	
The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
	
	
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less 
any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when 
development is complete and the asset is available for use. It is amortised on a straight line basis over the 
period of expected future benefit from the related project, i.e., the estimated useful life. Amortisation is 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss. During the period of development, the asset is tested for 
impairment annually.
	
	
k.	
Borrowing costs
	
	
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset 
that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended se or sale are capitalised 
as part of the cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. 
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing 
of funds. Borrowing cost also includes exchange differences to the extent regarded as an adjustment to 
the borrowing costs.
	
	
l.	
Leases
	
	
The Company assesses whether a contract contains a lease, at inception of a contract. A contract is, or 
contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of 
time in exchange for consideration.
	
	
	
Company as a lessee
	
	
The Company applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for short-term 
leases and leases of low-value assets. The Company recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments 
and right-of-use assets representing the right to use the underlying assets.
	
	
	
i.	
Right-of-use assets (ROU assets)
	
	
	
The Company’s lease asset classes primarily consist of leases for land and buildings. The Company 
recognises ROU assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying asset 
is available for use). ROU assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of ROU assets 
includes the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments 
made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received. ROU assets are 
depreciated from the commencement date on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term 
and useful life of the underlying asset. The ROU assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to the 
accounting policies in section (n) Impairment of non-financial assets.
	
	
	
ii.	
Lease liabilities
	
	
	
At the commencement date of the lease, the Company recognises lease liabilities measured at the 
present value of lease payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed 
payments less any lease incentives receivable. In calculating the present value of lease payments, 
the Company uses its borrowing rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using the 
incremental borrowing rates at the lease commencement date. After the commencement date, 
the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the 
lease payments made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a 
modification, a change in the lease term or a change in the lease payments.
	
	
	
iii.	
Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
	
	
	
The Company applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leased asset (i.e., 
those leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement date and do not 
contain a purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption to leases 
that are considered to be low value. For the short-term and low-value leases, the Company recognizes 
the lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Annual Report 2022-23
220
	
	
	
	
Company as a lessor
	
	
	
Leases in which the Company does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership 
of the asset is classified as operating lease.
	
	
	
Assets subject to operating leases other than land and building are included in PPE. Lease income 
on an operating lease is recognised in the statement of profit and loss on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term. Costs, including depreciation, are recognised as an expense in the statement of profit 
and loss.
	
	
m.	 Inventories
	
	
Inventories of raw materials including stores and spares and consumables, packing materials, semi-
finished goods, components, work-in-progress, project work-in-progress and finished goods are valued 
at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value. Cost is determined on weighted average basis.
	
	
The cost of work-in-progress, project work-in-progress, semi-finished goods and finished goods includes 
the cost of material, labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads.
	
	
Stock of land and land lease rights is valued at lower of cost and estimated net realisable value. Cost is 
determined on weighted average basis.
	
	
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs 
of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
	
	
n.	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be 
impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Company 
estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or 
cash-generating unit’s (‘CGU’) net selling price and its value in use. The recoverable amount is determined 
for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of 
those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds 
its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset. In determining net selling price, recent market transactions are taken into account, 
if available. If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
	
	
The Company bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are 
prepared separately for each of the Company’s CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated. These 
budgets and forecast calculations generally cover a period of five years. For longer periods, a long-term 
growth rate is calculated and applied to project future cash flows after the fifth year. To estimate cash flow 
projections beyond periods covered by the most recent budgets/ forecasts, the Company extrapolates 
cash flow projections in the budget using a steady or declining growth rate for subsequent years, unless 
an increasing rate can be justified. In any case, this growth rate does not exceed the long-term average 
growth rate for the products, industries, or country or countries in which the entity operates, or for the 
market in which the asset is used.
	
	
After impairment, depreciation is provided on the revised carrying amount of the asset over its remaining 
useful life. Impairment losses of continuing operations, including impairment on inventories, are recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss, except for properties previously revalued with the revaluation surplus 
taken to OCI. For such properties, the impairment is recognised in OCI up to the amount of any previous 
revaluation surplus.
	
	
The impairment loss recognised in prior accounting periods is reversed if there has been a change in 
estimates of recoverable amount. The carrying value after reversal is not increased beyond the carrying 
value that would have prevailed by charging usual depreciation if there was no impairment.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
221
	
	
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually as at year end. 
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU (or group of 
CGUs) to which the goodwill relates. When the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying 
amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in 
future periods.
	
	
o.	
Provisions
	
	
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result 
of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required 
to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
	
	
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate 
that reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in 
the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
	
	
p.	
Employee benefits
	
	
	
i.	
Short-term employee benefits:
	
	
	
Employee benefits such as short-term compensated absences, bonus, ex-gratia and performance 
linked rewards falling due within twelve months of rendering the service are classified as short-term 
employee benefits and are charged to the statement of profit and loss in the period in which the 
employee renders the service.
	
	
	
ii.	
Post-employment benefits:
	
	
	
A.	
Defined contribution schemes:
	
	
The Company provides defined contribution schemes such as statutory provident fund, employee 
state insurance, voluntary superannuation and the pension plan. The Company has no obligation 
other than the contribution payable to the funds which is recognised as an expense, when an 
employee renders the related service. If the contribution payable to the scheme for service received 
before the balance sheet date exceeds the contribution already paid, the deficit payable to the 
scheme is recognised as a liability after deducting the contribution already paid. If the contribution 
already paid exceeds the contribution due for services received before the balance sheet date, then 
excess is recognized as an asset to the extent that the pre-payment will lead to, for example, a 
reduction in future payment or a cash refund.
	
	
	
B.	
Defined benefit plan:
	
	
The employee’s gratuity fund scheme managed by board of trustees established by the Company, 
represent defined benefit plan. Gratuity is provided for on the basis of actuarial valuation, using 
projected unit credit method as at each balance sheet date.
	
	
Re-measurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding 
amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets 
(excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability), are recognised 
immediately in the balance sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through 
OCI in the period in which they occur. Re-measurements are not reclassified to statement of profit 
and loss in subsequent periods. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net 
defined benefit liability or asset. The Company recognised the following changes in defined benefit 
obligation as an expense in statement of profit or loss:
	
•	
Service cost comprising of current service cost, past service cost gains and loss on entitlements 
and non-routine settlement.
	
•	
Net interest expenses or income.
	
	
	
Gains or losses on settlement of any defined benefit plan are recognised when the settlement occurs. 
In case of funded plans, the fair value of the plan assets is reduced from the gross obligation under 
the defined benefit plans to recognise the obligation on a net basis.
Annual Report 2022-23
222
	
	
	
iii.	
Long-term employee benefits:
	
	
	
The Company provides long-term benefits such as Retention bonus (i.e long service award) and 
compensated absences. Retention bonus is awarded to certain cadre of employees on completion 
of specific years of service. The obligation recognised in respect of these long-term benefits is 
measured at present value of estimated future cash flows expected to be made by the Company 
and is recognised on the basis of actuarial valuation, using projected unit credit method as at each 
balance sheet date. As the Company does not have an unconditional right to defer its settlement for 
12 months after the reporting date, the entire leave is presented as a current liability in the balance 
sheet and expenses recognised in statement of profit and loss account. Long-term compensated 
balances and retention bonus are unfunded.
	
	
q.	
Financial instruments
	
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity.
	
	
	
Financial assets
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
With the exception of trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which 
the Company has applied the practical expedient, on initial recognition, a financial asset is recognised at 
fair value, in case of financial assets which are recognised at fair value through profit or loss, its transaction 
cost is recognised in the statement of profit and loss. In other cases, the transaction cost is attributed to 
the acquisition value of the financial asset.
	
	
Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Company has 
applied the practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under Ind AS 115. Refer 
to the accounting policies in section (d) Revenue from contracts with customers.
	
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in four categories:
	
•	
Debt instruments at amortized cost
	
•	
Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
	
•	
Debt instruments, derivatives and equity instruments at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
•	
Equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
	
	
	
Debt instruments at amortised cost
	
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised cost if both the following conditions are met:
	
a.	
The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual 
cash flows, and
	
b.	
Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.
	
	
This category is the most relevant to the Company. After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an 
integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in other income in the statement of profit and 
loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the statement of profit and loss. This category 
generally applies to trade and other receivables.
	
	
	
Debt instrument at FVTOCI
	
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is classified as at the FVTOCI if both of the following criteria are met:
	
a.	
The objective of the business model is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling 
the financial assets, and
	
b.	
The asset’s contractual cash flows represent SPPI.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
223
	
Debt instruments included within the FVTOCI category are measured initially as well as at each reporting 
date at fair value. Fair value movements are recognized in the OCI. However, the Company recognizes 
interest income, impairment losses & reversals and foreign exchange gain or loss in the statement of 
profit and loss. On de-recognition of the asset, cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is 
reclassified from the equity to statement of profit and loss. Interest earned whilst holding FVTOCI debt 
instrument is reported as interest income using the EIR method. The Company has not designated any 
financial asset as at FVTOCI.
	
	
	
Debt instrument at FVTPL
	
	
FVTPL is a residual category for debt instruments. Any debt instrument, which does not meet the criteria 
for categorisation as at amortised cost or as FVTOCI, is classified as at FVTPL.
	
	
In addition, the Company may elect to designate a debt instrument, which otherwise meets amortised cost 
or FVTOCI criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates 
a measurement or recognition inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’).
	
	
Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
	
Equity investments
	
	
All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are held 
for trading and contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer in a business combination to which 
Ind AS 103 Business Combinations applies are classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, 
the Company may make an irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive income subsequent 
changes in the fair value. The Company makes such election on an instrument by- instrument basis. The 
classification is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
	
	
If the Company decides to classify an equity instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the 
instrument, excluding dividends, are recognized in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from 
OCI to statement of profit and loss, even on sale of investment. However, the Company may transfer the 
cumulative gain or loss within equity.
	
	
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Investment in equity shares, compulsorily convertible debentures (‘CCD’) and compulsorily convertible 
preference shares of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures have been measured at cost less 
impairment allowance, if any.
	
	
	
De-recognition
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a Company of similar financial 
assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. removed from the Company’s balance sheet) when:
	
•	
The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired, or
	
•	
The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an 
obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-
through’ arrangement; and either:
	
a.	
the Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or
	
b.	
The Company has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
	
	
When the Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a 
pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent it has retained the risks and rewards of 
ownership. When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the 
asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Company continues to recognise the transferred asset 
to the extent of the Company’s continuing involvement. In that case, the Company also recognises an 
associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects 
the rights and obligations that the Company has retained.
Annual Report 2022-23
224
	
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the 
lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the 
Company could be required to repay.
	
	
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Company applies expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement 
and recognition of impairment loss on the following financial assets and credit risk exposure:
	
a.	
Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt 
securities, deposits, trade receivables and bank balance.
	
b.	
Financial assets that are debt instruments and are measured as at FVTOCI.
	
c.	
Trade receivables or any contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset that result from 
/transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 115 Revenue from contracts with customers.
	
d.	
Loan commitments which are not measured as at FVTPL.
	
e.	
Financial guarantee contracts which are not measured as at FVTPL.
	
	
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade 
receivables or contract assets. The application of simplified approach does not require the Company to 
track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at 
each reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
	
	
For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Company determines 
that whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk 
has not increased significantly, 12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk 
has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument 
improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the 
entity reverts to recognising impairment loss allowance based on 12-month ECL.
	
	
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected 
life of a financial instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default 
events that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date.
	
	
ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Company in accordance with 
the contract and all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted 
at the original EIR. When estimating the cash flows, an entity is required to consider:
	
•	
All contractual terms of the financial instrument (including prepayment, extension, call and similar 
options) over the expected life of the financial instrument. However, in rare cases when the expected 
life of the financial instrument cannot be estimated reliably, then the entity is required to use the 
remaining contractual term of the financial instrument.
	
•	
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by 
appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Estimated irrecoverable amounts are 
based on the ageing of the receivables balance and historical experience. Individual trade receivables 
are written off when management deems them not to be collectible.
	
	
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognised during the period is recognised as income / 
expense in the statement of profit and loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ 
in the statement of profit and loss. The balance sheet presentation for various financial instruments 
is described below:
	
•	
Financial assets measured as at amortised cost and contractual revenue receivables: ECL is 
presented as an allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the balance 
sheet. The allowance reduces the net carrying amount. Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the 
Company does not reduce impairment allowance from the gross carrying amount.
	
•	
Loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts: ECL is presented as a provision in the balance 
sheet, i.e. as a liability.
	
•	
Debt instruments measured at FVTOCI: Since financial assets are already reflected at fair value, 
impairment allowance is not further reduced from its value. Rather, ECL amount is presented as 
‘accumulated impairment amount’ in the OCI.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
225
	
	
For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, the Company combines financial instruments 
on the basis of shared credit risk characteristics with the objective of facilitating an analysis that is 
designed to enable significant increases in credit risk to be identified on a timely basis.
	
	
	
Financial liabilities
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
At initial recognition, financial liabilities are classified at FVTPL, at fair value through other equity, loans 
and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as 
appropriate. The resultant gain or loss arising on extinguishment of the existing debt with restructured 
debt and fair value of financial instruments issued to Lenders as per the terms of Resolution plan shall be 
recognised to other equity.
	
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below:
	
	
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
	
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and 
designated upon initial recognition as at FVTPL. Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if 
they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes derivative 
financial instruments entered into by the Company that are not designated as hedging instruments in 
hedge relationships as defined by Ind AS 109. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held 
for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
	
	
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at FVTPL are designated as such at the initial date 
of recognition, and only if the criteria in Ind AS 109 are satisfied. For liabilities designated as FVTPL, fair 
value gains / losses attributable to changes in own credit risk are recognized in OCI. These gains/ losses 
are not subsequently transferred to statement of profit and loss. However, the Company may transfer the 
cumulative gain or loss within equity. All other changes in fair value of such liability are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss. The Company has not designated any financial liability at FVTPL.
	
	
	
Loans and borrowings
	
	
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost using the EIR method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium 
on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. Gains and losses are recognised in 
statement of profit and loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation 
process. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of profit and loss. This category 
generally applies to borrowings.
	
	
	
De-recognition
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or 
expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially 
different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or 
modification is treated as the de recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
	
Embedded derivatives
	
	
An embedded derivative is a component of a hybrid (combined) instrument that also includes a non-
derivative host contract – with the effect that some of the cash flows of the combined instrument vary 
in a way similar to a standalone derivative. An embedded derivative causes some or all of the cash flows 
that otherwise would be required by the contract to be modified according to a specified interest rate, 
financial instrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating 
or credit index, or other variable, provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not 
specific to a party to the contract.
	
	
Reassessment only occurs if there is either a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies 
the cash flows that would otherwise be required or a reclassification of a financial asset out of the fair 
value through statement of profit and loss.
Annual Report 2022-23
226
	
	
If the hybrid contract contains a host that is a financial asset within the scope of Ind AS 109, the Company 
does not separate embedded derivatives. Rather, it applies the classification requirements contained in 
Ind AS 109 to the entire hybrid contract. Derivatives embedded in all other host contracts are accounted 
for as separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic characteristics and risks are not 
closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not held for trading or designated 
at FVTPL. These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised 
in statement of profit and loss, unless designated as effective hedging instruments.
	
	
	
Reclassification of financial assets and liabilities
	
	
The Company determines classification of financial assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial 
recognition, no reclassification is made for financial assets which are equity instruments and financial 
liabilities. For financial assets which are debt instruments, a reclassification is made only if there is a 
change in the business model for managing those assets. Changes to the business model are expected 
to be infrequent. The Company’s senior management determines change in the business model as a 
result of external or internal changes which are significant to the Company’s operations. Such changes 
are evident to external parties. A change in the business model occurs when the Company either begins 
or ceases to perform an activity that is significant to its operations. If the Company reclassifies financial 
assets, it applies the reclassification prospectively from the reclassification date which is the first day of 
the immediately next reporting period following the change in business model. The Company does not 
restate any previously recognised gains, losses (including impairment gains or losses) or interest.
	
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if 
there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to 
settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
	
	
r.	
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
	
	
Initial recognition and subsequent measurement
	
	
The Company uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts to hedge its 
foreign currency risks. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the 
date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. 
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when 
the fair value is negative. The purchase contracts that meet the definition of a derivative under Ind AS 109 
are recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Commodity contracts that are entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or 
delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the Company’s expected purchase, sale or usage 
requirements are held at cost.
	
	
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken directly to profit or loss, 
except for the effective portion of cash flow hedges, which is recognised in OCI and later reclassified to 
profit or loss when the hedge item affects profit or loss or treated as basis adjustment if a hedged forecast 
transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
	
	
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
	
•	
Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or 
liability or an unrecognised firm commitment,
	
•	
Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable 
to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 
transaction or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment,
	
•	
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
	
	
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Company formally designates and documents the hedge 
relationship to which the Company wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective 
and strategy for undertaking the hedge. The documentation includes the Company’s risk management 
objective and strategy for undertaking hedge, the hedging / economic relationship, the hedged item 
or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged, hedge ratio and how the entity will assess the 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
227
effectiveness of changes in the hedging instrument’s fair value in offsetting the exposure to changes in 
the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. Such hedges are expected to be 
highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing 
basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods 
for which they were designated.
	
	
Hedges that meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for, as described below:
	
	
	
i.	
Fair value hedges
	
	
	
The change in the fair value of a hedging instrument is recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
as finance costs. The change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk hedged is 
recorded as part of the carrying value of the hedged item and is also recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss as finance costs.
	
	
For fair value hedges relating to items carried at amortised cost, any adjustment to carrying value 
is amortised through profit or loss over the remaining term of the hedge using the EIR method. EIR 
amortisation may begin as soon as an adjustment exists and no later than when the hedged item 
ceases to be adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
	
	
If the hedged item is derecognised, the unamortised fair value is recognised immediately in profit 
or loss. When an unrecognised firm commitment is designated as a hedged item, the subsequent 
cumulative change in the fair value of the firm commitment attributable to the hedged risk is 
recognised as an asset or liability with a corresponding gain or loss recognised in statement of profit 
and loss.
	
	
	
ii.	
Cash flow hedges
	
	
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in OCI in the cash 
flow hedge reserve, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the statement of profit 
and loss.
	
	
The Company uses forward currency contracts as hedges of its exposure to foreign currency risk in 
forecast transactions and firm commitments, as well as forward commodity contracts for its exposure 
to volatility in the commodity prices. The ineffective portion relating to foreign currency contracts is 
recognised in finance costs and the ineffective portion relating to commodity contracts is recognised 
in other income or expenses.
	
	
Amounts recognised as OCI are transferred to profit or loss when the hedged transaction affects 
profit or loss, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when 
a forecast sale occurs When the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial 
liability, the amounts recognised as OCI are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-
financial asset or liability.
	
	
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover 
(as part of the hedging strategy), or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, or when the hedge no 
longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised 
in OCI remains separately in equity until the forecast transaction occurs or the foreign currency firm 
commitment is met.
	
	
	
iii.	
Foreign exchange forward contract
	
	
While the Company entered into other foreign exchange forwards contract with the intention of 
reducing the foreign exchange risk of expected sales and purchases, these other contracts are not 
designated in hedge relationships and are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
	
	
s.	
Earnings per share
	
	
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit/ (loss) after tax for the year attributable 
to equity shareholders (after deducting preference dividends and attributable taxes) by the weighted 
average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year are adjusted for any bonus shares issued during the year and also 
after the balance sheet date but before the date the financial statements are approved by the board of 
directors.
Annual Report 2022-23
228
	
	
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit/ (loss) after tax for the year attributable 
to equity shareholders (as adjusted for dividend, interest and other charges to expense or income, net of 
attributable taxes) by the weighted average number of shares considered for deriving basic earnings per 
share and the weighted average number of equity shares which could have been issued on the conversion 
of all dilutive potential equity shares.
	
	
The number of equity shares and potentially dilutive equity shares are adjusted for bonus shares as 
appropriate. The dilutive potential equity shares are adjusted for the proceeds receivable, had the shares 
been issued at fair value. Dilutive potential equity shares are deemed converted as of the beginning of the 
year, unless issued at a later date.
	
	
t.	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
	
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term 
deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value.
	
	
u.	
Contingent liabilities
	
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will be 
confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly 
within the control of the entity or a present obligation that arises from past events but is not recognised 
because it is not probable that an outflow of resource embodying economic benefit will be required to 
settle the obligation or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
	
	
The Company does not recognise a contingent liability but discloses it as per Ind AS 37 Provisions, 
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets in the financial statements unless the possibility of an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefit is remote.
3.	
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
	
The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could 
result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in 
future periods.
	
3.1	 Significant judgements in applying the Company’s accounting policy
	
	
In the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, 
which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements:
	
	
Operating lease commitments – Company as a lessor
	
	
The Company has entered into commercial property leases on its investment property portfolio. The Company 
has determined, based on an evaluation of the terms and conditions of the arrangements, such as the lease 
term not constituting a major part of the economic life of the commercial property and the fair value of the 
asset, that it retains all the significant risks and rewards of ownership of these properties and accounts for the 
contracts as operating leases.
	
	
Revenue from contracts with customers
	
	
The Company applied the following judgements that significantly affect the determination of the amount and 
timing of revenue from contracts with customers:
	
	
•	
Identifying performance obligations
	
	
The Company supplies WTG that are either sold separately or bundled together with project execution activities 
to customers.
	
	
The Company determined that both the supply of WTGs and project execution activities can be performed 
distinctly on a stand-alone basis which indicates that the customer can benefit from respective performance 
obligations on their own. The Company also determined that the promises to supply the WTG and execute 
projects are distinct within the context of the contract and are not inputs to a combined item in the contract. 
Further, the WTG supply and project execution activities are not highly interdependent or highly interrelated, 
as the Company would be able to supply WTGs wherein the project execution activities can be performed by 
customers directly. Further, the Company uses output method for measuring the progress of performance 
obligation as it represents a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods or services.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
229
	
	
•	
Determining method to estimate variable consideration and assessing the constraint
	
	
Contracts for the supply of WTGs and project execution activities include a right for penalty in case of 
delayed delivery or commissioning and compensation for performance shortfall expected in future over the 
life of the guarantee assured that give rise to variable consideration. In estimating the variable consideration, 
the Company considers the dynamics of each contract and the factors relevant to that sale on a case to 
case basis.
	
	
Before including any amount of variable consideration in the transaction price, the Company considers 
whether the amount of variable consideration is constrained. The Company determined that the estimates 
of variable consideration are not constrained based on its historical experience, business forecast and the 
current economic conditions. In addition, the uncertainty on the variable consideration will be resolved within 
a short time frame.
	
3.2	 Significant accounting estimates and assumptions
	
	
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting 
date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year, are described below. Uncertainty about these assumption and estimates could 
result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in 
future periods.
	
	
Allowance for trade receivables
	
	
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their normal value as reduced by appropriate 
allowance for expected credit loss (“ECL”). The Company recognises impairment loss allowance based on 
lifetime ECL at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition. For recognition of impairment loss, 
the Company determines that whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial 
recognition. The carrying value of allowance for credit impairment and ECL is ₹ 83.91 Crore as at March 31, 
2023 (previous year: ₹ 148.28 Crore), refer Note 12.
	
	
Taxes
	
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available against which the losses can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to 
determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level 
of future taxable profits, future tax planning strategies. The Company has unabsorbed depreciation, business 
losses and capital losses details of which are given in Note 34.3. As there are not certain taxable temporary 
differences or tax planning operations, the Company has not recognised DTA.
	
	
Defined benefit plans (gratuity benefits)
	
	
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are determined 
using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from actual 
developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary increases and 
mortality rates. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit 
obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. Assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
	
	
The parameter most subject to change is the discount rate. In determining the appropriate discount rate for 
plans operated, the management considers the interest rates of government bonds in currencies consistent 
with the currencies of the post-employment benefit obligation.
	
	
The estimates of future salary increase consider the inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors.
	
	
Further details about gratuity obligations are given in Note 37.
	
	
Fair value measurement of financial instruments
	
	
When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be 
measured based on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques 
including the Discounted cash flow (“DCF”) model. The inputs to these models are taken from observable 
markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair 
values. Judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes in 
assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments. Refer Note 43 for 
further disclosures.
Annual Report 2022-23
230
	
	
Intangible assets under development
	
	
The Company capitalises intangible assets under development for a project in accordance with the accounting 
policy. Initial capitalisation of costs is based on management’s judgement that technological and economic 
feasibility is confirmed, usually when a product development project has reached a defined milestone according 
to an established project management model. In determining the amounts to be capitalised, management 
makes assumptions regarding the expected future cash generation of the project, discount rates to be applied 
and the expected period of benefits.
	
	
The carrying value of intangible assets under development has been disclosed in Note 10.
	
	
Property, plant and equipment
	
	
Refer Note 2.3 (h) for the estimated useful life and Note 6 for carrying value of property, plant and equipment.
4.	
Implementation of Refinancing Proposal
	
The Company and its subsidiaries Suzlon Global Services Limited (‘SGSL’), Suzlon Power Infrastructure Limited 
(‘SPIL’) and Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited (‘SGWPL’) and a joint venture Suzlon Generators Limited (‘SGL’) together 
referred to as Suzlon The Group (“STG”) entered into an agreement with the Erstwhile lenders for refinancing the 
outstanding restructured facilities (“Refinancing Proposal”) based on sanction letters from REC Limited and Indian 
Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited (“the New Lenders”). On May 24, 2022 (“Effective Date”), the 
Refinancing Proposal was consummated, and the outstanding obligations of STG under the Restructured Facilities 
were discharged as follows:
i.	
Outstanding Rupee Term Loan along with accrued interest has been paid off in full;
ii.	
Limits of non-fund based working capital facilities against cash margin or Letter of Comfort (“LOC”) have been 
released or transferred or replaced;
iii.	
Entire outstanding 410,000 number of Optionally Convertible Debentures (“OCD”) having face value of 
₹ 100,000 each issued by the Company have been converted in full with 57,14,28,572 equity shares having face 
value of ₹ 2 each of the Company allotted to the Erstwhile Lenders;
iv.	
4,45,301 number of Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares (“CCPS”) having face value of ₹ 100,000 each 
issued by Suzlon Global Services Limited (“SGSL”) have been converted into full with 4,454 equity shares 
having face value of ₹ 10 each of SGSL allotted to the Erstwhile Lenders;
v.	
The requirement of maintaining the lock-in for 99,71,76,872 equity shares having face value of ₹ 2 each of the 
Company issued to the Erstwhile Lenders as stipulated in the Framework Restructuring Agreement dated June 
30, 2020 was waived and;
vi.	
49,85,88,439 number of convertible warrants issued by the Company to the Erstwhile Lenders were 
surrendered.
	
	
STG till April 07, 2022 includes SEL, SGSL, SPIL, SGPWL and SGL. Post April 07, 2022 STG includes SEL, SGSL, 
SPIL (since merged with the Company, refer Note 48 k) and SGWPL.
5.	
During the year, the Company received a show cause notice (SCN) from SEBI, in respect of certain specific 
transactions between the Company and its domestic subsidiaries and disclosure of contingent liability in respect 
of earlier financial years from 2013-14 to 2017-18. The management has responded to the SCN and has denied the 
allegations made by the SEBI. Additionally, the management has also filed a settlement application in accordance 
with of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018 (the “SEBI Settlement 
Regulations”) to settle the matter without admission of guilt with respect to such allegations. This matter has been 
disclosed under contingent liability and the management believes that there is no material impact of this matter on 
these financial statements.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
231
6.	
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’)
Particulars
Gross block
Accumulated depreciation
Net block
As at 
April 1, 
2022
Additions Translation 
adjustment
Deductions /
adjustment
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
April 1, 
2022
Charge 
for the 
year
Translation 
adjustment
Deductions/ 
adjustment
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2023
Freehold land
108.17
0.13
-
-
108.30
-
-
-
-
-
108.30
Buildings
481.98
13.77
-
139.37
356.38
286.10
25.58
-
129.81
181.87
174.51
Site development
28.04
-
28.04
-
28.04
-
-
28.04
-
-
Plant and machinery
472.70
31.15
-
63.74
440.11
333.60
48.95
-
57.82
324.73
115.38
Wind research & measuring 
equipment
18.32
6.85
-
9.12
16.05
15.15
3.22
-
 8.28
10.09
5.96
Computers and office equipment
53.56
4.87
1.10
1.73
57.80
43.53
3.86
0.88
1.63
46.64
11.16
Furniture and fixtures
38.97
0.01
0.15
1.30
37.83
32.47
0.43
0.13
1.17
31.86
5.97
Vehicles
19.71
1.12
0.46
20.37
15.78
1.18
-
0.38
16.58
3.79
Total
1,221.45
57.90
1.25
243.76
1,036.84
754.67
83.22
1.01
227.13
611.77
425.07
Particulars
Gross block
Accumulated depreciation
Net block
As at 
April 1, 
2021
Additions Translation 
adjustment
Deductions /
adjustment
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
April 1, 
2021
Charge 
for the 
year
Translation 
adjustment
Deductions/ 
adjustment
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 31, 
2022
Freehold land
 111.68
-
-
3.51
108.17
 -
-
-
-
-
108.17
Buildings
 473.25
8.81
-
0.08
481.98
 270.85
15.30
-
0.05
286.10
195.88
Site development
 28.04
-
-
-
28.04
 28.04
-
-
28.04
-
Plant and machinery
 499.53
65.60
-
92.43
472.70
 380.42
42.17
-
88.99
333.60
139.10
Wind research & measuring 
equipment
 26.24
0.70
-
8.62
18.32
 20.34
2.75
-
7.94
15.15
3.17
Computers and office equipment
 56.70
5.36
(0.36)
8.14
53.56
 46.08
3.12
(0.33)
5.34
43.53
10.03
Furniture and fixtures
 39.38
0.26
(0.05)
0.62
38.97
 32.61
0.38
(0.05)
0.47
32.47
6.50
Vehicles
 19.68
0.07
-
0.04
19.71
 14.46
1.35
-
0.03
15.78
3.93
Total
1,254.50
80.80
(0.41)
113.44
1,221.45
 792.80
65.07
(0.38)
102.82
754.67
466.78
	
Notes:
	
a.	
Buildings include those constructed on leasehold land forming part of ROU assets.
	
b.	
For contractual commitment with respect to property, plant and equipment refer Note 39.
	
c.	
For details of property, plant and equipment given as security to Lenders refer Note 21.4.
	
d.	
The translation adjustment is the difference resulting from translating foreign currency to Indian currency at closing exchange rate.
Annual Report 2022-23
232
7.	
Other Intangible assets and goodwill
Particulars
Gross block
Accumulated amortisation
Net block
 As at 
April 1, 
2022
Additions
Translation 
adjustment
Deductions / 
adjustments
As at 
March 
31, 2023
 As at 
April 1, 
2022
Charge for 
the year
Translation 
adjustment
Deductions / 
adjustment
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2023
Other intangible assets
Design and drawings
827.56
33.15
-
141.38
719.33
704.18
93.68
-
141.37
656.49
62.84
SAP and other software
33.92
0.31
0.61
1.40
33.44
32.60
1.62
0.56
1.40
33.38
0.06
Total
861.48
33.46
0.61
142.78
752.77
736.78
95.30
0.56
142.77
689.87
62.90
Goodwill
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Particulars
Gross block
Accumulated amortisation
Net block
 As at 
April 1, 
2021
Additions
Translation 
adjustment
Deductions / 
adjustments
As at 
March 31, 
2022
 As at 
April 1, 
2021
Charge for 
the year
Translation 
adjustment
Deductions / 
adjustment
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 31, 
2022
Other intangible assets
Design and drawings
790.27
37.29
-
-
827.56
600.51
103.67
-
-
704.18
123.38
SAP and other software
32.87
1.35
(0.21)
0.09
33.92
28.39
4.51
(0.21)
0.09
32.60
1.32
Total
823.14
38.64
(0.21)
0.09
861.48
628.90
108.18
(0.21)
0.09
736.78
124.70
Goodwill
1,059.80
-
-
1,059.80
-
1,059.80
-
-
1,059.80
-
 -
	
Notes:
	
a.	
For details of intangible assets given as security to Lenders refer Note 21.4.
	
b.	
The translation adjustment is the difference resulting from translating foreign currency to Indian currency at closing exchange rate.
	
c.	
Design and drawings are internally generated.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
233
8.	
Capital work-in-progress (CWIP)
	
CWIP as at March 31, 2023 stood at ₹ 0.87 Crore (previous year: ₹ 7.63 Crore), which primarily includes office 
building under construction. During the year, CWIP of ₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 17.49 Crore) is written off under its 
annual impairment test.
	
8.1	 CWIP ageing schedule 
< 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
> 3 years
Total
As at March 31, 2023
Projects in progress
0.87
-
-
-
0.87
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
0.87
-
-
-
0.87
As at March 31, 2022
Projects in progress
5.94
-
0.44
1.25
7.63
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
5.94
-
0.44
1.25
7.63
	
	
The expected completion schedule for amounts lying in CWIP as at the year-end is within 1 to 2 years.
9.	
Investment properties
	
The Company’s investment properties consist of three commercial properties given on lease.
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Gross block
Opening balance
53.44
53.63
Additions
-
-
Deduction / adjustments
(-)
(0.19)
Closing balance
53.44
53.44
Accumulated depreciation
Opening balance
22.58
20.99
Depreciation
1.65
1.63
Deduction / adjustments
(-)
(0.04)
Closing balance
24.23
22.58
Net block
29.21
30.86
	
9.1	 Information regarding income and expenditure of investment properties:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Rental income derived from investment properties
8.88
9.22
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance)
(1.51)
(1.90)
Depreciation
(1.65)
(1.63)
Profit before indirect expenses
5.72
5.69
Annual Report 2022-23
234
	
9.2	 Fair value and valuation techniques:
	
	
As at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 the fair value of the properties were ₹ 65.74 Crore and ₹ 81.82 Crore 
respectively. The fair valuation is derived by management internally on the basis of DCF method. Description 
of key inputs to valuation on investment properties is as below:
Investment 
property
Significant unobservable inputs
Range
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Godrej Millennium
Condominium
Rent growth p.a.
5%
5%
Rent growth p.a. (for terminal value)
2%
2%
Long term vacancy rate
0%
0%
Long term vacancy rate (for terminal value)
7%
7%
Discount rate
10.42%
8.68%
Aqua Lounge
One Earth
Rent growth p.a.
5%
5%
Rent growth p.a. (for terminal value)
2%
2%
Long term vacancy rate
10%
10%
Long term vacancy rate (for terminal value)
7%
7%
Discount rate
10.42%
8.68%
Sun Lounge
One Earth
Rent growth p.a.
5%
5%
Rent growth p.a. (for terminal value)
2%
2%
Long term vacancy rate
10%
10%
Long term vacancy rate (for terminal value)
7%
7%
Discount rate
10.42%
8.68%
	
	
Under the DCF method, fair value is estimated using assumptions regarding the benefits and liabilities of 
ownership over the investment property life including an exit or terminal value. This method involves the 
projection of a series of cash flows on a real property interest. To this projected cash flow series, a market-
derived discount rate is applied to establish the present value of the income stream associated with the asset.
	
	
For details of investment properties given as security to Lenders refer Note 21.4.
10.	 Intangible assets under development (IAUD)
	
Intangible assets under development as at March 31, 2023 stood at ₹ 3.43 Crore (previous year: ₹ 4.42 Crore), 
which primarily includes designs and drawings under development.
	
10.1	IAUD ageing schedule
< 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
> 3 years
Total
As at March 31, 2023
Projects in progress
3.43
-
-
-
3.43
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
3.43
-
-
-
3.43
As at March 31, 2022
Projects in progress
4.42
-
-
-
4.42
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
4.42
-
-
-
4.42
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
235
11.	 Investments
	
Non-current
	
11.1	 Investments in equity instrument in an associate, at cost
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Suzlon Energy (Tianjin) Limited, China
58.33
58.33
Less: Impairment allowance
(58.33)
(58.33)
Total
-
-
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments in an associate
58.33
58.33
Aggregate impairment allowance for investments in an associate 
measured at cost
(58.33)
(58.33)
	
11.2	Investments in subsidiaries
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
a.	 in equity instrument of Indian subsidiaries, at cost
i.	
20 (previous year: 20) equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid of 
Varadvinayak Renewables Limited
0.00*
0.00*
ii.	 20 (previous year: 20) equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid of Manas 
Renewables Limited
0.00*
0.00*
iii.	 20 (previous year: 20) equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid of 
Vakratunda Renewables Limited
0.00*
0.00*
iv.	 29,371,254 (previous year: 29,366,800) equity shares of ₹ 10 each 
fully paid of Suzlon Global Services Limited (‘SGSL’)
961.50
961.50
v.	 375,020 (previous year: 375,020) equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid 
of Vignaharta Renewables Limited
37.50
37.50
vi.	 20 (previous year: 20) equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid of Sirocco 
Renewables Limited
0.00*
0.00*
vii.	 194,610,000 (previous year: 194,610,000) equity shares of ₹ 10 each 
fully paid of Suzlon Power Infrastructure Limited (refer Note 48 k)
-
194.61
	
Less: Impairment allowance
-
(194.61)
viii.	784,920,791 (previous year: 784,920,791) equity shares of ₹ 10 each 
fully paid of SE Forge Limited
1,044.96
1,044.96
	
Less: Impairment allowance
(754.23)
(754.23)
ix.	 125,420 (previous year: 125,420) equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid 
of SWE Wind Project Services Limited
12.54
12.54
	
Less: Impairment allowance
(0.57)
(0.57)
x.	 62,820 (previous year: 62,820) equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid 
of Suryodaya Renewables Limited
6.28
6.28
	
Less: Impairment allowance
(0.25)
(0.25)
xi.	 14 (previous year: 14) equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid of Suyash 
Renewables Limited
0.00*
0.00*
xii.	 14 (previous year: 14) equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid of Gale 
Green Urja Limited
0.00*
0.00*
xiii.	250,420 (previous year: 250,420) equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully 
paid of SWE Renewables Limited
25.04
25.04
	
Less: Impairment allowance
(1.05)
(1.05)
Total
1,331.72
1,331.72
Annual Report 2022-23
236
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
b.	 in equity instrument of overseas subsidiaries, at cost
i.	
5,423,712 (previous year: 5,423,712) equity shares of Euro 10 each 
fully paid of AE Rotor Holding B.V., The Netherlands (‘AERH’)
418.21
418.21
	
Less: Impairment allowance
(418.21)
(418.21)
ii.	 764,595 (previous year: 764,595) equity shares of Euro 1 each fully 
paid of Suzlon Energy A/S, Denmark (‘SEAS’) $
-
23.24
	
Less: Impairment allowance
-
(23.24)
iii.	 8,618,000 (previous year: 8,618,000) equity shares of Euro 1 each 
fully paid up of Tarilo Holdings B.V. (‘THBV’) $
-
61.32
	
Less: Impairment allowance
-
(61.32)
iv.	 4,401,315,657 (previous year: 4,401,315,657) equity shares of Suzlon 
Energy Limited, Mauritius (‘SELM’)
6,396.08
6,396.08
	
Less: Impairment allowance
(6,396.08)
(6,396.08)
v.	 Suzlon Wind Energy Equipment Trading (Shanghai) Co. Limited, China 
(‘SWETCO’)
10.11
10.11
	
Less: Impairment allowance
(10.11)
(10.11)
 Total
-
-
c.	 in preference shares, at FVTPL
i.	
1,000,000 (previous year: 1,000,000) 8% cumulative redeemable 
preference shares of ₹ 100 each fully paid of Suzlon Global Services 
Limited
ii. 	 10,000 (previous year: Nil) Non-cumulative redeemable preference 
shares of ₹ 100 each fully paid of Suzlon Global Services Limited
27.32
0.10
25.30
 -
Total
27.42
25.30
d.	 in CCD, at amortised cost
4,000,000 (previous year: 4,000,000) 9% compulsory convertible 
debentures of ₹ 1,000 each fully paid of Suzlon Global Services Limited
394.74
394.94
Total
394.74
394.94
	
11.3	 Other investments, at FVTPL
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
a.	 Investments in government securities
0.01
0.01
b.	 7,550 (previous year: 7,550) equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid of 
Saraswat Co-operative Bank Limited
0.01
0.01
c.	 30 (previous year: 30) equity shares of ₹ 10 of Godrej Millennium 
Condominium
0.00*
0.00*
Total
0.02
0.02
Total investments
1,753.90
1,751.98
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments (cost)
9,323.97
9,603.04
Aggregate impairment allowance
(7,580.50)
(7,859.66)
	
	
$ Classified under asset for sale.
	
	
The fair values of the investments in unquoted equity shares have been estimated using a DCF model. The 
valuation requires management to make certain assumptions about the model inputs, including forecast 
cash flows, discount rate, credit risk and volatility. The probabilities of the various estimates within the range 
can be reasonably assessed and are used in management’s estimate of fair value for these unquoted equity 
investments.
	
	
*Less than ₹ 0.01 Crore
	
	
For details of investment given as security to Lenders refer Note 21.4.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
237
12.	 Trade receivables
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Non-current
Unsecured, considered doubtful
Credit impaired
78.31
141.45
Less: Allowance for credit impairment
(78.31)
(141.45)
Total
-
-
Current
Unsecured, considered good
551.92
674.46
Less: Allowance for expected credit loss
(5.60)
(6.83)
Total
546.32
667.63
	
During the year, the reduction in trade receivables is primarily on account of lower volume.
	
No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with 
any other person, nor any trade or other receivables are due from firms or private companies respectively in which 
any director is a partner, a director or a member.
	
Trade receivables are disclosed at amortised cost.
	
For details of receivable given as security to Lenders refer Note 21.4.
	
12.1	 Ageing schedule for trade receivables
Current 
but not 
due
Outstanding from due date of payment
Total
< 6 
months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
> 3 years
As at March 31, 2023
Undisputed trade receivables
Considered good
-
353.30
31.36
50.55
6.12
85.36
526.69
Credit impaired
-
0.08
0.36
1.09
5.99
69.62
77.14
Disputed trade receivables
Considered good
-
1.52
0.15
0.29
1.20
22.07
25.23
Credit impaired
 -
-
-
-
-
1.17
1.17
Gross trade receivables
-
354.90
31.87
51.93
13.31
178.22
630.23
Allowance for credit 
impairment and expected 
credit loss
-
-
-
-
-
-
(83.91)
Total
-
-
-
-
-
-
546.32
Annual Report 2022-23
238
Current 
but not 
due
Outstanding from due date of payment
Total
< 6 
months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
> 3 years
As at March 31, 2022
Undisputed trade receivables
 Considered good
-
492.34
26.86
8.67
34.74
80.26
642.87
 Credit impaired
-
-
0.66
5.99
36.48
96.65
139.78
Disputed trade receivables
 Considered good
-
12.34
0.11
9.18
2.20
7.76
31.59
 Credit impaired
-
-
-
0.27
-
1.40
1.67
Gross trade receivables
-
504.68
27.63
24.11
73.42
186.07
815.91
Allowance for credit 
impairment and expected 
credit loss
-
-
-
-
-
-
(148.28)
Total
-
-
-
-
-
-
667.63
	
12.2	Movement in allowance for credit impairment and expected credit loss is as under:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Balance as at the beginning of the year
148.28
112.69
Add: Impairment allowance/ (reversal) during the year, net
(64.37)
35.59
Balance as at the end of the year
83.91
148.28
	
12.3	Relationship with struck off companies: Nil (previous year: Nil).
13.	 Loans
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Non-current
Inter-corporate deposits to related parties
Unsecured, considered good
1,244.42
52.51
Credit impaired
718.82
1,557.27
Less: Allowance for credit impaired
(718.82)
 (1,557.27)
Total
1,244.42
52.51
Current
Unsecured, considered good
Inter-corporate deposits to related parties
0.02
51.43
Loans to employees
0.59
0.92
Total
0.61
52.35
	
13.1	Loans granted to related parties that are repayable on demand:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Amount of loan 
outstanding
% of total loans Amount of loan 
outstanding
% of total loans
 Non-current
-
-
52.51
100.00%
 Current
0.02
3.28%
51.43
 98.22%
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
239
	
13.2	Inter-corporate deposits to related parties
	
	
The Company had recognised credit loss on the ICDs given to given to SPIL and Project Execution division of 
SGWPL and interest accrued thereon in earlier years amounting to ₹ 1,334.53 Crore. Upon filing of NCLT orders 
(refer Note 48 k), these balances got transferred to SGSL. In view of the improved credit standing of SGSL, the 
credit loss relating to the ICDs extended to SPIL and Project Execution division of SGWPL in earlier years, was 
reversed by the Company. Since these reassessments are arising from group restructuring, the reversal of the 
aforementioned credit loss is recognised directly in other equity under retained earnings.
	
	
Carrying value of loans carry interest in the range of 9%-10% per annum and are repayable by the subsidiaries 
till June 30, 2030. The subsidiaries has an option to make early prepayment of the loans during the term.
	
	
Loans are disclosed at amortised cost.
	
	
For details of loans given as security to Lenders refer Note 21.4.
14.	 Other financial assets
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Non-current
Bank balances (refer Note a below)
312.68
63.29
Security deposits
Unsecured, considered good
17.81
83.75
Unsecured, considered doubtful
0.00*
13.53
Less: Allowance for doubtful deposits
(0.00)*
(13.53)
17.81
83.75
Advances recoverable in cash
Unsecured, considered doubtful
5,053.68
4,654.31
Less: Allowance for doubtful advances
(5,053.68)
(4,654.31)
-
-
Other assets (refer Note b below)
52.90
81.63
Total
383.39
228.67
Current
Security deposits (unsecured, considered good)
1.06
-
Interest accrued on deposits, loans and advances
3.40
0.97
Advances recoverable in cash (considered good)
24.83
28.04
Other assets (refer Note b below)
46.21
47.35
Total
75.50
76.36
	
* Less than ₹ 0.01 Crore
	
a.	
Bank balances mainly represents margin money deposits, which are subject to first charge towards non-fund 
based facilities from Lenders.
	
b.	
Other assets include ₹ 72.35 Crore (previous year: 102.57 Crore) towards expenditure incurred by Company on 
development of infrastructure facilities for power evacuation arrangements as per authorisation of the State 
Electricity Board (‘SEB’) / Nodal agencies in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The expenditure is reimbursed, on 
agreed terms, by the SEB/ Nodal agencies. In certain cases, the Company had received contribution towards 
power evacuation infrastructure from customers in the ordinary course of business. The cost incurred towards 
development of infrastructure facility is reduced by the reimbursements received from SEB/ Nodal agencies and 
the net amount is shown as ‘Infrastructure Development Asset’ under other financial assets. During the year, the 
Company had provided for ₹ 1.26 Crore (previous year: ₹ 13.68 Crore) based on ECLs at the reporting date.
	
	
All the financial assets are disclosed at amortised cost.
	
	
For details of financial assets given as security to Lenders refer Note 21.4.
Annual Report 2022-23
240
15.	 Other assets
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Non-current
Capital advances (unsecured, considered good)
0.24
3.24
Advances recoverable in kind (unsecured, considered good)
	
Advances to related parties
61.14
55.58
Advances recoverable in kind (unsecured, considered doubtful)
	
Advances to related parties
-
166.25
	
Advances to others
0.27
31.76
Less: Allowance for doubtful advances
(0.27)
(198.01)
-
-
Advance income tax (net of provisions)
9.49
7.32
Prepaid expenses
0.44
3.15
Total
71.31
69.29
Current
Advances recoverable in kind (unsecured, considered good)
	
Advances to related parties
90.75
-
	
Advances to others
143.40
71.01
Advances to employees
0.85
0.67
Prepaid expenses
13.87
84.69
Balances with government / statutory authorities
114.14
253.66
Total
363.01
410.03
	
For details of other assets given as security to Lenders refer Note 21.4.
16.	 Inventories (valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)
 March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Raw materials [including goods in transit of ₹ 56.84 Crore (previous year: ₹ 
111.70 Crore)]
 282.48
600.26
Finished goods, semi-finished goods and work- in-progress
364.95
442.13
Stores and spares
112.74
124.48
Land and lease rights
0.25
0.60
Total
760.42
1,167.47
	
For details of inventories given as security to Lenders refer Note 21.4.
17.	 Cash and cash equivalents
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
a.	 Cash and cash equivalents
 	
Balances with banks
290.58
350.58
	
Cash on hand
0.05
0.17
290.63
350.75
b.	 Bank balance other than (a) above (earmarked)
-
59.27
Total
290.63
410.02
	
There are no restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year and previous year.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
241
18.	 Assets held for sale
Investment type
Investments in
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Equity shares 
and compulsorily 
convertible debentures
Aalok Solarfarms Limited
4.63
4.63
Abha Solarfarms Limited
4.64
4.64
Heramba Renewables Limited
9.27
9.27
Shreyas Solarfarms Limited
9.27
9.27
Equity shares
Vayudoot Solarfarms Limited (refer Note 48 c)
-
14.22
Suzlon Generators Limited (refer Note 48 b)
-
50.00
Suzlon Energy A/S, Denmark
23.24
-
Less: Impairment allowance
(23.24)
-
Tarilo Holdings B.V.
61.32
-
Less: Impairment allowance
(61.32)
-
Property, plant and 
equipment
Freehold land (refer Note 33 a)
-
3.51
Total assets held for sale
27.81
95.54
Total liabilities directly associated with the assets held for sale
-
-
	
The Company has reclassified its investment in above entities and assets under “Assets held for sale”, as the same 
is intended to dispose within next 12 months.
19.	 Equity share capital
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Authorised shares
55,000,000,000 (previous year: 55,000,000,000) equity shares of ₹ 2 each
11,000.00
11,000.00
Issued shares (refer Note 19.7)
12,089,841,003 (previous year: 9,236,376,014) equity shares of ₹ 2 each fully 
paid-up
2,417.97
1,847.28
402,178,057 (previous year: Nil) equity shares of ₹ 2 each partly
paid-up
40.22
-
2,458.19
1,847.28
Subscribed and fully paid-up shares (refer Note 19.7)
12,070,909,026 (previous year: 9,217,444,037) equity shares of ₹ 2 each fully 
paid-up
2,414.18
1,843.49
Subscribed and partly paid-up shares (refer Note 19.7)
402,178,057 (previous year: Nil) equity shares of ₹ 2 each partly
paid-up ₹ 1 each.
40.22
-
2,454.40
1,843.49
	
19.1	 Reconciliation of the equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the financial year
 Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Number of shares 
(Crore)
₹ Crore Number of shares 
(Crore)
₹ Crore
Opening balance
921.74
1,843.49
850.80
1,701.60
Issued during the year
(refer note 19.6, 19.7 and 21.2)
325.57
610.91
70.94
141.89
Closing balance
1,247.31
2,454.40
921.74
1,843.49
Annual Report 2022-23
242
	
19.2	 Terms/ rights attached to equity shares
	
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ₹ 2 each. The voting rights of the 
shareholders shall be in proportion to their shares in the paid-up equity share capital of the Company i.e. each 
holder of fully paid-up equity share is entitled to one vote per share and each holder of partly paid-up equity 
share is entitled to half a vote per share.
	
The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees (₹). The dividend proposed by the Board of 
Directors is subject to approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
	
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holder of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining 
assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to 
the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
	
The Company on February 13, 2015 signed a Shareholder Agreement as amended by an Amendment Agreement 
dated December 11, 2015 (collectively the “Agreement”) with the Investor Group in terms of which the Investor 
Group agreed to subscribe to 100 Crore equity shares at the rate of ₹ 18 per shares aggregating to ₹ 1,800.00 
Crore, which were allotted on May 15, 2015.
	
	
Subsequently, the Company has entered into (i) securities subscription agreement with the Investor Group 
dated February 28, 2020 (“Investor SSA”); (ii) an amended and restated shareholders’ agreement with the 
Investor Group and promoters of the Company dated February 28, 2020 (“SHA”); and (iii) securities subscription 
agreement with Tanti Holdings Private Limited (“Promoter Group”) dated February 28, 2020 (“Promoter SSA”). 
In terms of Promoter SSA, the Company has, on June 27, 2020, issued and allotted 408,077,000 equity shares 
of ₹ 2 each for cash at an issue price of ₹ 2.45 per share to Tanti Holdings Private Limited on preferential 
basis. Further, in terms of Investor SSA, the Company has on June 27, 2020, issued and allotted 204,077,000 
equity shares of ₹ 2 each for cash at an issue price of ₹ 2.45 per share and 4,998 Compulsorily Convertible 
Debentures (CCDs) of ₹ 100,000/- each for cash at par to the Investor Group on preferential basis. The said 
4,998 CCDs have been mandatorily converted into 203,998,368 equity shares on December 26, 2021 at a 
conversion price of ₹ 2.45 per share as per the terms of issue and allotment of CCDs.
	
19.3 Aggregate number of bonus shares issued, share issued for consideration other than cash and shares 
bought back during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date:
	
	
Nil during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date.
	
	
•	
Securities convertible into equity/ preference shares issued along with the date of conversion
	
	
In June 2020, the Company had allotted securities in the form of Optionally Convertible Debentures (OCDs) 
aggregating to ₹ 4,100 Crore, due 2040, on preferential basis to the Erstwhile Lenders in accordance with 
the Resolution Plan, convertible only in the event of default. The Company had also allotted 49.86 Crore full 
paid-up share warrants, on preferential basis to the Erstwhile Lenders in accordance with the Resolution Plan, 
convertible only in the event that Part A Facilities under Resolution Plan are not classified as “Standard” as per 
IRAC norms within the stipulated timelines. Subsequently, on May 24, 2022, pursuant to the implementation of 
the refinancing proposal, the entire outstanding value of OCDs was converted into 571,428,572 equity shares 
having a face value of ₹ 2/- and the share warrants were lapsed. (Refer Note 4).
	
19.4	 Shares reserved for issue under options
	
	
For details of shares reserved for issue on conversion of FCCBs, refer Note 19.6 and 21.6 for terms of conversion/ 
redemption.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
243
	
19.5	Details of shares held by promoters and shareholders holding more than 5% in the Company:
Sr. 
No.
Promoter Name
No. of 
shares at the 
beginning of 
the year
 % of 
total 
shares
Change 
during the 
year
 No. of shares at 
the end of the 
year
 % of 
total 
shares
% 
change 
during 
the year
As at March 31, 2023
1
Tulsi R. Tanti
3,905,000
0.04
929,761
4,834,761
0.04
0.00
2
Gita T. Tanti
64,512,000
0.70
(64,500,000)
12,000
0.00
(0.70)
3
Pranav T. Tanti as karta 
of Tulsi Ranchhodbhai 
HUF
18,000,000
0.20
-
18,000,000
0.14
(0.06)
4
Vinod R. Tanti as karta 
of Ranchhodbhai 
Ramjibhai HUF
42,570,000
0.46
10,135,714
52,705,714
0.42
(0.04)
5
Tulsi R. Tanti J/w. Vinod 
R. Tanti J/w. Jitendra 
R. Tanti
42,660,000
0.46
10,157,142
52,817,142
0.42
(0.04)
6
Vinod R. Tanti
25,267,000
0.27
5,000,000
30,267,000
0.24
(0.03)
7
Jitendra R. Tanti
16,100,000
0.17
(7,077,000)
9,023,000
0.07
(0.10)
8
Sangita V. Tanti
70,182,000
0.76
(70,182,000)
-
-
(0.76)
9
Lina J. Tanti
70,182,000
0.76
(70,182,000)
-
-
(0.76)
10
Rambhaben Ukabhai
16,566,000
0.18
456,611,759
473,177,759
3.79
3.61
11
Vinod R. Tanti as karta 
of Vinod Ranchhodbhai 
HUF
5,000,000
0.05
(5,000,000)
-
-
(0.05)
12
Jitendra R. Tanti as 
karta of Jitendra 
Ranchhodbhai HUF
9,023,000
0.10
(9,023,000)
-
-
(0.10)
13
Pranav T. Tanti
42,504,000
0.46
(42,504,000)
-
-
(0.46)
14
Nidhi T. Tanti
3,052,000
0.03
(3,052,000)
-
-
(0.03)
15
Rajan V. Tanti
16,605,000
0.18
(16,605,000)
-
-
(0.18)
16
Brij J. Tanti
37,117,000
0.40
(37,117,000)
-
-
(0.40)
17
Trisha J. Tanti
15,120,000
0.16
(15,120,000)
-
-
(0.16)
18
Girish R. Tanti
100,019,000
1.09
-
100,019,000
0.80
(0.29)
19
Tanti Holdings Private 
Limited
566,978,093
6.15
134,994,781
701,972,874
5.63
(0.52)
20
Samanvaya Holdings 
Private Limited
295,499,363
3.21
70,356,990
365,856,353
2.93
(0.28)
Total
1,460,861,456
15.85
347,824,147
1,808,685,603
14.50
(1.35)
Total paid-up shares
9,217,444,037
100.00
12,473,087,083
100.00
Annual Report 2022-23
244
Sr. 
No.
Promoter Name
No. of 
shares at the 
beginning of 
the year
 % of 
total 
shares
Change 
during the 
year
 No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
 % of 
total 
share
% 
change 
during 
the year
As at March 31, 2022
1
Tulsi R. Tanti
 3,905,000
0.05
-
3,905,000
0.04
(0.01)
2
Gita T. Tanti
 64,512,000
0.76
-
64,512,000
0.70
 (0.06)
3
Tulsi R. Tanti as karta 
of Tulsi Ranchhodbhai 
HUF
 18,000,000
0.21
-
18,000,000
0.20
 (0.01)
4
Tulsi R. Tanti as karta 
of Ranchhodbhai 
Ramjibhai HUF
 42,570,000
0.50
-
42,570,000
0.46
(0.04)
5
Tulsi R. Tanti J/w. Vinod 
R. Tanti J/w. Jitendra 
R. Tanti
 42,660,000
0.50
-
42,660,000
0.46
 (0.04)
6
Vinod R. Tanti
 25,267,000
 0.30
-
25,267,000
0.27
 (0.03)
7
Jitendra R. Tanti
 16,100,000
0.19
-
16,100,000
0.17
 (0.02)
8
Sangita V. Tanti
 70,182,000
0.82
-
70,182,000
0.76
 (0.06)
9
Lina J. Tanti
 70,182,000
0.82
-
70,182,000
0.76
 (0.06)
10
Rambhaben Ukabhai
 16,566,000
0.19
-
16,566,000
0.18
 (0.01)
11
Vinod R. Tanti as karta 
of Vinod Ranchhodbhai 
HUF
 5,000,000
0.06
-
5,000,000
0.05
 (0.01)
12
Jitendra R. Tanti as 
karta of Jitendra 
Ranchhodbhai HUF
 9,023,000
0.11
-
9,023,000
0.10
 (0.01)
13
Pranav T. Tanti
 42,504,000
0.50
-
 42,504,000
0.46
 (0.04)
14
Nidhi T. Tanti
 3,052,000
0.04
-
 3,052,000
0.03
 (0.01)
15
Rajan V. Tanti
 16,605,000
0.20
-
 16,605,000
0.18
 (0.02)
16
Brij J. Tanti
 37,117,000
0.44
-
 37,117,000
0.40
 (0.04)
17
Trisha J. Tanti
 15,120,000
0.18
-
 15,120,000
0.16
 (0.02)
18
Girish R. Tanti
 100,019,000
1.18
-
 100,019,000
1.09
 (0.09)
19
Tanti Holdings Private 
Limited
 566,978,093
6.66
-
 566,978,093
6.15
 (0.51)
20
Samanvaya Holdings 
Private Limited
 295,499,363
3.47
-
 295,499,363
3.21
 (0.26)
Total
1,460,861,456
17.17
-
1,460,861,456
15.85
 (1.32)
Total paid-up shares
8,508,012,773
100.00
9,217,444,037
100.0
	
	
Note: As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders / members and other declarations 
received from shareholders regarding beneficial interest, the above shareholding represents both legal and 
beneficial ownership of shares.
	
19.6 Conversion of Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (‘FCCB’)
	
	
On September 23, 2022, the Company has allotted 28.42 Crore equity shares having a face value of ₹ 2/- each 
on conversion of 27,977 convertible bonds due 2032 having a face value of USD 320 each aggregating to a 
principal amount of USD 9,455,285 (after capitalising interest @ 2.75% per annum accrued on half yearly basis) 
at a conversion price of ₹ 2.49 with a fixed rate of exchange on conversion of ₹ 74.8464 to USD 1.00 forming 
part of USD 35,931,200.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
245
	
19.7	Rights Issue
	
	
Pursuant to the approval of the Board of Directors at their meeting dated August 10, 2022, the Company 
offered 240 Crore partly-paid equity shares to the existing eligible shareholders on a right basis in the ratio of 
five equity shares for every twenty one equity shares held by them on the record date of October 4, 2022. On 
October 31, 2022, the Company allotted 240 Crore partly paid-up equity shares of face value of ₹ 2.00 each 
at an issue price of ₹ 5.00 per equity share, i.e. at a premium of ₹ 3.00 per equity share. The applicants were 
required to pay ₹ 2.50 per equity share on application of which ₹ 1.00 per equity share is appropriated towards 
face value and remaining ₹ 1.50 per equity share is appropriated towards securities premium. Subsequently, 
the Securities Issue Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on February 24, 
2023 approved the making of first and final call of ₹ 2.50, of which ₹ 1.00 per equity share is appropriated 
towards face value and remaining ₹ 1.50 per equity share is appropriated towards securities premium. Out of 
the total shares allotted in right issue, 402,178,057 equity shares remain partly paid up as at March 31, 2023.
	
	
Till March 31, 2023, the Company received first and final call money of ₹ 2.50 per share on 199,78,21,943 equity 
shares aggregating to ₹ 499.46 Crore and accordingly the Securities Issue Committee of the Board of Directors 
of the Company, at its meeting held on March 29, 2023, approved conversion of 199,78,21,943 partly paid-up 
equity shares into full paid-up equity shares (Converted Rights Equity Shares).
	
	
The Rights issue proceeds are utilised in accordance with the objects of the issue as stated in the offer 
document. Details of utilisation of rights issue proceeds are given below:
Particulars
March 31, 2023
Sources of funds
1,099.46
Proceeds from issue
1,099.46
Utilisation of funds
966.90
Repayment of loan to New Lenders
900.00
Payment towards issue expenses
16.50
Payment towards general corporate purposes
50.40
Unutilised funds
 132.56
	
19.8	 Employee Stock Option Plan (‘ESOP’)
	
	
On May 22, 2023, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company 
granted 109,290,000 Options convertible into 109,290,000 equity shares of ₹2.00 each to the eligible 
employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries under the Employee Stock Option Plan 2022 at an exercise 
price of ₹ 5.00 per option with 50% vesting (out of which 25% would be retention-based vesting and balance 
25% would be performance-based vesting) at the end of first year from the date of grant and balance 
50% (out of which 25% would be retention-based vesting and balance 25% would be performance-based 
vesting) at the end of second year from the date of grant and exercise period of two years from the date of 
respective vesting.
20.	 Other equity
	
Refer Statement of Changes in Equity for detailed movement in equity balance.
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Equity component of compound financial instruments (refer Note 21.6)
-
13.93
Capital reserve
23.30
23.30
Capital redemption reserve
15.00
15.00
General reserve
908.56
908.56
Securities premium
10,667.59
9,610.93
Capital contribution
5,698.74
5,466.90
Retained earnings (refer Note 13.2)
(18,348.20)
(22,006.04)
Money received against share warrants (refer Note 4 vi)
-
231.84
Total
(1,035.01)
(5,735.58)
Annual Report 2022-23
246
	
Nature and purposes of various items in other equity:
	
a.	
Equity component of compound financial instruments
	
	
The FCCB has been classified as compound financial instruments. This instrument has been split between 
equity and liability by primarily valuing the liability portion without equity conversion options. The balance 
between instrument value and liability component has been treated as the value of equity conversion options.
	
b.	
Capital reserve
	
	
The Company recognises profit or loss on purchase / sale of the equity instruments in case of merger to capital 
reserve.
	
c.	
Capital redemption reserve
	
	
The Company has transferred amount from statement of profit or loss to capital redemption reserve on 
redemption of preference shares issued by the Company.
	
d.	
General reserve
	
	
The Company has transferred a portion of the net profit of the Company before declaring dividend or a portion 
of net profit kept separately for future purpose is disclosed as general reserve.
	
e.	
Securities premium
	
	
Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
f.	
Capital contribution
	
	
The resultant gain arising on extinguishment of debt and fair value of financial instruments issued as per the 
terms of Resolution plan had been transferred to Capital contribution.
21.	 Borrowings
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Non-current
Term loans from banks (secured)
-
2,161.17
Term loans from financial institutions (secured)
1,445.99
300.11
Optionally Convertible Debentures (secured)
-
757.34
Payable towards debt assignment (unsecured)
562.99
498.22
Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (unsecured)
-
57.85
Total
2,008.98
3,774.69
Current
Current maturities of long-term borrowings
323.02
 486.54
Total
323.02
486.54
	
21.1	  Implementation of RTL Agreement with REC and IREDA (‘New Lenders’)
	
	
On April 28, 2022, the Company along with its identified subsidiaries entered into a Rupee Term Loan Agreement 
(“RTL Agreement”) with the New Lenders for refinancing the borrowing facilities of the STG. On May 24, 2022 
(“Effective Date”), on consummation of refinancing proposal (refer Note 4), STG refinanced their borrowing 
facilities from erstwhile lenders as per the RTL Agreement with the New Lenders. The key features of the RTL 
Agreement are as follows:
	
i.	
Sanction of facilities (including non-fund based facilities) of ₹ 4,053 Crore from the New Lenders.
	
ii.	
Repayment of fund based Rupee Term Loan in 98 structured monthly instalments commencing from May 
2022 to June 2030 at initial interest rate of 9.50% per annum, subject to reset after 1 year;
	
iii.	
Release of LOC on retirement of respective non-fund based working capital facilities by Erstwhile Lenders;
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
247
	
iv.	
Reduction of sanctioned facilities (including non-fund based facilities) from REC of ₹ 3,553 Crore to 
₹ 2,178 Crore within 1 year from disbursement;
	
v.	
Monetization of specified assets within stipulated timelines.
	
21.2	 Optionally Convertible Debentures (‘OCD’)
	
	
On May 24, 2022, in terms of the Refinancing Proposal, the Company allotted 571,428,572 equity shares to 
erstwhile Lenders having face value of ₹ 2 each pursuant to conversion in full of entire outstanding OCD of 
410,000 having face value of ₹ 100,000 each aggregating to ₹ 4,099.18 Crore (refer Note 4). On conversion in 
full, the OCD’s got extinguished and the difference between the carrying value of OCD’s and fair value of shares 
issued on settlement date amounting to ₹ 255.38 Crore is disclosed under exceptional items.
	
21.3	 Payable towards debt assignment
	
	
As part of implementation of Resolution Plan in June 2020, pursuant to the assignment of debt, the Company 
recognised an amount of ₹ 4,453.01 Crore as loan payable to SGSL at an interest rate of 0.0001% and maturity 
date of March 31, 2040.
	
	
The loan payable was initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate (‘EIR’) method at 13.00%. The resultant gain or loss at initial recognition was recognised 
at fair value through other equity.
	
21.4	 The details of security for the secured loans are as follows:
	
a.	
Financial facilities by way of RTL from New Lenders in accordance with the RTL Agreement aggregating 
to ₹ 1,764.44 Crore (previous year: ₹ Nil) of which ₹ 1,445.98 Crore (previous year: ₹ Nil) classified as long-
term borrowings and ₹ 318.46 Crore (previous year: ₹ Nil) classified as current maturities of long-term 
borrowings and non-fund based working capital facilities are secured by first pari-passu charge over all 
present and future current assets of each Borrower except land forming part of inventories, first pari-passu 
charge over all fixed assets of Borrowers whether movable or immovable both present and future, first 
pari-passu charge by way of assignment or creation of security interest in the project contracts, any letter 
of credit, guarantee provided by, insurance contracts and clearances related to project, first charge over all 
accounts including Trust and Retention Account (‘TRA’), first pari-passu pledge over 100% of fully paid-up 
equity capital of SPIL (since merged into SGSL), SGWPL and SGSL by SEL, negative lien over the equity 
shares held by SEL in SE Forge Limited, Non disposal undertaking or pledge over the 100% of the equity 
share capital of Suzlon Energy Limited, Mauritius (‘SELM’) and AE Rotor Holding B.V. (‘AERH’), first pari-
passu pledge over certain equity shares of SEL held by the promoters and other members of the promoter 
group, brand image of Suzlon and corporate guarantee provided by each of the Borrowers guaranteeing 
the obligations of the other Borrowers in compliance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013.
	
Financial facilities from erstwhile Lenders in accordance with Resolution Plan aggregating to ₹ Nil (previous 
year: ₹ 2,947.41 Crore) of which ₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 2,461.28 Crore) classified as long-term borrowings 
and ₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 486.13 Crore) classified as current maturities of long-term borrowings and 
non-fund based working capital facilities are secured by first pari-passu charge over all current assets of 
SEL, SGWPL, SPIL and SGL (except for certain identified assets), first pari-passu charge over all current 
assets generated under identified orders both present and future, first pari-passu charge over all current 
assets of SGSL both present and future, first pari-passu charge with new PSF Lenders on current assets 
generated under identified orders of Borrowers except SGSL in certain scenario, second charge on cash 
flows of Borrowers except SGSL arising out of identified orders which are funded by new PSF Lenders, 
first pari-passu charge over all fixed assets of Borrowers whether movable or immovable, first charge over 
Trust and Retention Account (‘TRA’), first charge on DSR Accounts, , first pari-passu pledge over 100% of 
fully paid-up equity capital of SGWPL and SPIL and 75% of SGL by SEL, first pari-passu pledge over 100% 
of fully paid-up equity capital of SGSL till conversion of CCPS into equity shares of SGSL, negative lien 
over the equity shares held by SEL in SE Forge Limited, Non disposal undertaking or pledge over the 100% 
of the equity share capital of Suzlon Energy Limited, Mauritius (‘SELM’) and AE Rotor Holding B.V. (‘AERH’), 
first pari-passu pledge over certain equity shares of SEL held by the promoters and other members of the 
promoter group, brand image of Suzlon and personal guarantee of Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti.
	
b.	
410,000 fully paid up 0.01% Secured Optionally Convertible Debentures (‘OCD’) having original face value 
of ₹ 100,000 each of Company issued to Lenders aggregating to face value of ₹ 4,100.00 Crore having 
outstanding face value of ₹ Nil and fair value of ₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 757.75 Crore) of which ₹ Nil (previous 
year: ₹ 757.34 Crore) classified as long-term borrowings and ₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 0.41 Crore) classified 
as current maturities of long-term borrowings are secured by security as specified above for RTL II on pari 
passu basis and corporate guarantee of SGSL, SPIL, SGWPL and SGL.
Annual Report 2022-23
248
	
21.5	 The Company has non-fund based facilities from banks on the basis of security of current assets shared on 
pari passu basis with New Lenders.
	
21.6	 Foreign currency convertible bonds (FCCBs)
	
	
On August 17, 2020, the Company had issued 112,285 FCCBs due for conversion in August 2032 having a face 
value of USD 320 each aggregating to a principal amount of USD 35,931,200 at an initial conversion price of ₹ 
2.61 with a fixed rate of exchange on conversion of ₹ 74.8464 per USD bearing. These FCCB’s carry a coupon 
of 4.00% per annum of which 1.25% shall be paid semi-annually and balance 2.75% shall be accrued and added 
to the principal value of the Bonds.
	
	
These FCCBs are recognised as compound financial instruments that consist of financial liability and equity 
since the Company has an obligation to pay interest as well as to issue predetermined number of equity shares. 
Accordingly, the financial liability component of the FCCB’s is initially recognised at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method at 5.72% and the residual portion is recognised 
in other equity.
	
	
Since the date of issuance, principal FCCB’s (after considering interest at 2.75%) of USD 36.301 Million have 
been converted into equity shares by March 31, 2023 and USD 529,338.11 (equivalent to ₹ 4.34 Crore) are 
outstanding and classified as current maturities of long-term borrowings as at March 31, 2023 disclosed under 
short term borrowings.
	
	
Subsequent to year end on May 02, 2023, the Company has redeemed the entire outstanding FCCBs at their 
principal amount aggregating to USD 529,338.11 together with accrued but unpaid interest upto the redemption 
date @ 1.25% p.a. amounting to USD 1,378.48 in accordance with terms of FCCB. Accordingly, the FCCB have 
been cancelled and delisted from The Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited. Consequent to the 
redemption, there are no outstanding FCCBs.
	
21.7	The details of repayment of borrowing are as follows :
Particulars
Year
Up to 1 year
2 to 5 years
Above 5 years
Total
Secured loans
March 31, 2023
318.67
1,329.66
116.33
1,764.66
March 31, 2022
486.54
1,248.67
1,969.94
3,705.15
Unsecured loans
March 31, 2023
4.35
-
562.99
567.34
March 31, 2022
-
-
556.08
556.08
Total
March 31, 2023
323.02
1,329.66
679.32
2,332.00
March 31, 2022
486.54
1,248.67
2,526.02
4,261.23
	
21.8	The effective rate of interest on long-term secured borrowings is 9.50% to 10.00% p.a.
	
	
Borrowings are disclosed at amortised cost.
22.	 Other financial liabilities
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Non-current
Other liabilities
3.39
4.23
Option value liability (refer Note a below)
-
2,347.50
Total
3.39
2,351.73
Current
Interest accrued on borrowings
0.01
0.01
Other liabilities (refer Note b below)
220.98
211.08
Total
220.99
211.09
a.	
As part of the Resolution Plan, SGSL had issued CCPS of ₹ 4,453.01 Crore to the Lenders. CCPS contained 
multiple embedded derivatives and call and put options (‘Exit Options’) available to holders of CCPS, SGSL, SEL 
and its promoters. The liability of the Company towards Put Option available to Lenders as part of Exit Option 
on CCPS was initially recognised at fair value using the effective interest method at 13.00%. The resultant gain 
or loss at initial recognition was recognised at fair value through other equity.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
249
	
On May 24, 2022, in terms of the Refinancing Proposal, SGSL allotted 4,454 equity shares to erstwhile Lenders 
having a face value of ₹10/- each pursuant to conversion in full of entire outstanding CCPS value of ₹ 4,453.01 
Crore. The difference between the carrying value of option value liability and considered finalised for transfer 
of 4,454 equity shares of SGSL with Erstwhile Lenders on settlement date of ₹ 2,268.72 Crore after reducing 
transaction cost of ₹ 124.56 Crore is disclosed under exceptional items (refer Note 4 and 33).
b.	
Other liabilities include claim payables, provision for employee payables and advances.
	
All the financial liabilities are disclosed at amortised cost except for put option liability which is disclosed at 
FVTPL.
23.	 Provisions
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Non-current
Employee benefits
31.46
22.77
Provision for operation, maintenance and warranty
113.37
90.19
Total
144.83
112.96
Current
Employee benefits
15.09
15.86
Provision for performance guarantee, operation maintenance and warranty 
and liquidated damages
436.11
379.40
Total
451.20
395.26
	
In pursuance of Ind AS 37 - ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets, the provisions required have 
been incorporated in the books of account in the following manner:
Particulars
Performance 
guarantee
Operation, 
maintenance 
and warranty
Liquidated 
damages
Total
Opening balance
 39.90
228.12
 201.57
 469.59
 (68.71)
(220.94)
(174.39)
(464.04)
Additions, net
20.62
101.08
59.82
181.52
 (11.22)
 (157.21)
(68.73)
 (237.16)
Unwinding of warranty discounting and  
deferral of O & M
 -
-0.98
-
-0.98
(-)
 (-1.59)
(-)
 (-1.59)
Utilisation
4.40
59.45
10.29
74.14
 (32.10)
 (148.44)
 (19.89)
(200.43)
Reversal
 1.30
-
25.21
26.51
 (7.93)
 (-)
 (21.66)
(29.59)
Closing balance
 54.82
 268.77
 225.89
 549.48
(39.90)
(228.12)
(201.57)
(469.59)
Non-current
-
 113.37
 -
 113.37
Current
54.82
155.40
225.89
 436.11
	
Figures in the brackets represents balance of previous year.
	
Performance guarantee (‘PG’) represents the expected outflow of resources against claims for performance shortfall 
expected in future over the life of the guarantee assured. The period of performance guarantee varies for each 
customer according to the terms of contract. The key assumptions in arriving at the performance guarantee provisions 
are wind velocity, plant load factor, grid availability, load shedding, historical data, wind variation factor etc.
	
Operation, maintenance and warranty represents the expected liability on account of field failure of parts of WTG 
and expected expenditure of servicing the WTGs over the period of free operation, maintenance and warranty, 
which varies according to the terms of each sales contract.
Annual Report 2022-23
250
	
Liquidated damages (‘LD’) represents the expected claims which the Company may need to pay for non-fulfilment 
of certain commitments as per the terms of the respective sales / purchase contracts. These are determined on a 
case to case basis considering the dynamics of each contract and the factors relevant to that sale.
	
The figures shown against ‘Utilisation’ represent withdrawal from provisions credited to statement of profit and loss 
to offset the expenditure incurred during the year and debited to statement of profit and loss.
24.	 Other liabilities
	
Non-current – It includes deferred revenue of ₹ 0.48 Crore (previous year: ₹ 0.19 Crore).
Current
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Statutory dues
16.73
11.28
Deferred revenue
-
0.65
Other liabilities
0.03
0.02
Total
16.76
11.95
25.	 Trade payables
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Trade payables to micro and small enterprises (‘MSE’)
2.70
58.98
Trade payables to related parties
745.39
628.99
Trade payables to others
314.00
1,127.97
Total
1,062.09
1,815.94
	
25.1	Ageing schedule for trade payables
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues
Outstanding from due date of payment
Total
Not 
dues
< 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
> 3 years
As at March 31, 2023
Undisputed dues of MSE
-
0.42
2.20
-
-
0.08
2.70
Undisputed dues of creditors 
other than MSE
51.90
56.55
338.84
2.27
266.18
343.66
1,059.39
Disputed dues of MSE
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed dues of creditors other 
than MSE
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
51.90
56.97
341.04
2.27
266.18
343.74
1,062.09
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues
Outstanding from due date of payment
Not dues
< 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
> 3 years
Total
As at March 31, 2022
Undisputed dues of MSE
-
-
53.64
2.22
1.22
1.90
58.98
Undisputed dues of creditors 
other than MSE
75.81
-
1,021.99
22.39
16.80
618.03
1,755.02
Disputed dues of MSE
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed dues of creditors other 
than MSE
-
-
0.21
-
-
1.73
1.94
Total
75.81
-
1,075.84
24.61
18.02
621.66
1,815.94
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
251
	
25.2 Details of due to micro and small enterprises as defined under MSMED Act, 2006
Sl.
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
a.
Principal amount remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end of 
the accounting year.
2.70
58.98
b.
Interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end 
of the accounting year
0.17
0.26
c.
Amount of interest paid along with the amounts of payment made to 
the supplier beyond due date.
8.37
78.55
d.
Amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment but without adding the interest specified under this Act.
0.23
0.66
e.
Amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of the 
accounting year.
-
-
f.
Amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the 
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above 
are actually paid.
0.40
0.92
	
	
The Company has identified micro and small enterprises, as defined under the MSMED Act, 2006 by requesting 
confirmation from the vendors through the letters circulated by the Company.
	
25.3 Relationship with struck off companies
Name of struck off company
Nature of 
transactions
Transactions  
during the year 
ended
 Balance  
outstanding as at
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Inam Engineering Pvt Ltd
Payable
-
 -
-
 0.10
None
Shakun & Company Services 
Pvt. Ltd.
Services taken
-
 0.00*
-
 -
CAS Weighing India Pvt Ltd
Purchase of goods
-
 0.01
-
 -
SEW-Eurodrive India Pvt Ltd
Purchase of goods
-
 0.02
 -
	
	
*Less than ₹ 0.01 Crore.
	
	
Trade payables are disclosed at amortised cost.
26.	 Revenue from contracts with customers
	
26.1	 Disaggregated revenue information
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Type of goods and services
Sale of wind turbines, and other spare parts
3,356.27
3,747.54
Income from operating and maintenance service
119.56
135.70
Sale of services
23.95
45.50
Scrap sales
38.36
46.67
Total
3,538.14
3,975.41
Geography
India
3,517.39
3,950.96
Outside India
20.75
24.45
Total
3,538.14
3,975.41
Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time
3,394.63
3,794.21
Services transferred at a point in time / over time
143.51
181.20
Total
3,538.14
3,975.41
Annual Report 2022-23
252
	
26.2 Contract balances
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Trade receivables
546.32
667.63
Contract liabilities
386.66
353.99
	
	
Refer Note 12.2 for movement in allowance for expected credit loss.
	
26.3 Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the statement of profit and loss with the contracted 
price
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Revenue as per contracted price
3,592.15
4,025.82
Less: Variable consideration
Liquidated damages (refer Note 23)
(34.61)
(47.07)
Performance guarantee (refer Note 23)
(19.32)
(3.29)
Sales commission
(0.08)
(0.05)
Total
3,538.14
3,975.41
	
26.4 Performance obligation
	
	
Information about the Company’s performance obligations are summarised below:
	
	
WTG equipment
	
	
The performance obligation is satisfied upon dispatch of the equipment and payment is generally due within 
30 to 45 days from completion of contract milestone.
	
	
Standard warranty period beyond fixing the defects that existed at the time of sale is provided to customers. The 
warranty is accounted for as a separate performance obligation and a portion of transaction price is allocated. 
The performance obligation for the warranty service is satisfied over the standard period on time elapsed.
	
	
Project services
	
	
Project services includes civil foundation, electrical, installation and commissioning of WTG. The performance 
obligation is satisfied over-time and payment is generally due upon completion of milestone.
	
	
Power evacuation infrastructure facilities
	
	
The performance obligation is satisfied upon commissioning and electrical installation of the WTG to the said 
facilities followed by approval for commissioning of WTG from the concerned authorities.
	
	
Land revenue
	
	
In case of leasehold, the performance obligation is satisfied upon the transfer of leasehold rights to the customers, 
for outright sale, the performance obligation is satisfied when title of land is transferred to the customer as per the 
terms of the respective sales order. The performance obligation for land development is satisfied upon rendering of 
the service as per the terms of the respective sales order.
	
	
Operation and maintenance income
	
	
The performance obligation is satisfied over-time and payment is due within 30 days from invoice date which 
is raised as per contractual agreement.
27.	 Other income
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Interest income on
	
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
	
	
on inter corporate deposit
128.30
3.58
	
	
on deposits with banks
9.95
9.42
	
	
on other financial assets
53.64
49.60
	
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
0.33
0.42
Total
192.22
63.02
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
253
28.	 Cost of raw materials, components consumed and services rendered
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Consumption of raw materials
Opening inventory
600.26
291.10
Add: Purchases
2,345.19
3,393.49
2,945.45
3,684.59
Less : Closing inventory
282.48
600.26
2,662.97
3,084.33
Changes in inventories:
Opening inventory
Finished, semi-finished goods and work- in- progress
442.13
451.71
Land and land lease rights
0.60
0.69
(A)
442.73
452.40
Closing inventory
Finished, semi-finished goods and work- in- progress
364.95
442.13
Land and land lease rights
0.25
0.60
(B)
365.20
442.73
Changes in inventories 	 
(C) = (A) - (B)
77.53
9.67
29.	 Employee benefits expense
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Salaries, wages, allowances and bonus
232.88
207.35
Contribution to provident fund and other funds*
13.68
13.49
Staff welfare expenses
5.95
4.78
Total
252.51
225.62
	
*Includes gratuity expense of ₹ 5.11 Crore (previous year: ₹ 5.41 Crore).
	
The employee benefits expense includes expenses of ₹ 38.26 Crore (previous year: ₹ 31.85 Crore) pertaining to 
research and development.
30.	 Finance costs
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Interest expense on
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
361.58
466.61
Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL
45.77
283.84
Unwinding interest on long-term provisions
0.76
0.45
Bank charges
33.45
26.18
Total
441.56
777.08
31.	 Depreciation and amortisation expense
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment (refer Note 6)
83.22
65.07
Amortisation of intangible assets (refer Note 7)
95.30
108.18
Depreciation on investment properties (refer Note 9)
1.65
1.63
Amortisation on right-of-use assets (refer Note 38)
9.87
10.25
Total
190.04
185.13
Annual Report 2022-23
254
32.	 Other expenses
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Stores and spares consumed
47.64
56.51
Power and fuel
14.70
14.72
Factory and site expenses
24.73
25.52
Repairs and maintenance:
-	
Plant and machinery
6.27
5.07
-	
Building
5.42
5.12
-	
Others
12.98
10.62
Operation and maintenance charges
120.80
136.94
Rent
11.78
11.21
Rates and taxes
7.99
3.86
Operation, maintenance and warranty expenditure (refer Note 23)
99.33
155.25
Quality assurance expenses
0.37
1.18
R & D, certification and product development
6.80
3.03
Insurance
8.74
8.25
Advertisement and sales promotion
2.63
0.96
Freight outward and packing expenses
1.45
53.04
Travelling, conveyance and vehicle expenses
16.74
10.50
Communication expenses
2.91
3.00
Auditors’ remuneration and expenses (refer note 32.1)
0.91
1.14
Consultancy charges
37.37
33.24
CSR, charity and donations
1.32
1.41
Security expenses
4.09
3.60
Outsource manpower cost
50.81
46.34
Miscellaneous expenses
21.05
4.92
Exchange differences, net
40.89
11.81
Bad debts written off
2.45
2.94
Impairment allowance/ (reversal)
(5.89)
(1.11)
Allowance/ (reversal) for doubtful debts and advances, net
(7.95)
17.83
Capital work-in-progress written off
-
17.49
Gain on sale of investment
(0.01)
-
Loss on disposal of PPE and investment property, net
1.05
6.63
Total
537.37
651.02
	
32.1	Payment to auditors includes:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Statutory audit fees
0.82
1.06
Certification
-
0.04
Reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses
0.09
0.04
Total
0.91
1.14
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
255
	
32.2 The Company has average negative net loss for preceding three financial years, and therefore CSR disclosure 
is not applicable.
	
32.3 The other expense includes expenses of ₹ 17.36 Crore (previous year: ₹ 8.31 Crore) pertaining to research and 
development.
33.	 Exceptional items
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Difference on de-recognition as a result of conversion in full of OCD and option 
value liability, net off transaction cost (refer Note 4, 21.2 and 22.(a))
(2,524.10)
-
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (refer Note a below)
(55.66)
-
Impairment provision on financial assets (refer Note b below)
37.68
82.87
Total
(2,542.08)
82.87
a.	
The Company has disposed property, plant and equipment of one of its plant and a freehold land for a 
consideration of ₹ 45.63 Crore and ₹ 38.25 Crore respectively and gain on its disposal is disclosed under 
exceptional items.
b.	
The Company has made net provision ₹ 37.68 Crore (previous year: ₹ 82.87 Crore) towards impairment of 
investments in, loans given and other financial assets given to subsidiaries, associates and joint venture.
34.	 Income tax expense
	
34.1	Income tax charged to statement of profit and loss is ₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ Nil).
	
34.2Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Accounting profit/ (loss) before income tax
2,162.76
(912.66)
Enacted tax rates in India
25.168%
25.168%
Computed tax expense
544.32
(229.70)
Non-deductible expenses for tax purpose
120.92
281.54
Deductible expenses for tax purpose
(751.86)
(78.50)
Expenses taxable at different rates @ 22.88%
(29.56)
-
Unused tax losses
-
-
Effect of unrecognized deferred tax assets
116.18
26.66
Tax expense as per statement of profit and loss
-
-
	
34.3 Details of carry forward losses, material disputes and unused credit on which no deferred tax asset 
is recognised by the Company are as follows:
	
	
The unabsorbed depreciation is available for offsetting all future taxable profits of the Company and can be 
carried forward indefinitely. The business losses and capital losses can be carried forward for 8 years from the 
year in which losses arose. Majority of business losses and capital losses, to the extent remaining unutilized will 
expire between FY 2023-24 to FY 2027-28. The Company has opted for concessional tax regime u/s.115BAA 
since FY 20-21 and accordingly MAT is not applicable.
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Business losses (including interest loss)
1,550.10
1,870.33
Unabsorbed depreciation
1,757.88
1,543.81
Capital loss
2,532.68
2,403.50
Total
5,840.66
5,817.64
Annual Report 2022-23
256
35.	 Components of other comprehensive income (OCI)
	
It includes loss on account of re-measurement of defined benefit plans of ₹ 5.71 Crore (previous year: gain of ₹ 1.67 
Crore), refer Note 37.1.
36.	 Earnings / (loss) per equity share (EPS)
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Basic
Net profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to equity shareholders
2,162.76
(912.66)
Weighted average number of equity shares
10,775,250,532
9,291,606,924
Basic earnings / (loss) per share of ₹ 2 each
2.01
(0.98)
Diluted
Net profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to equity shareholders
2,162.75
(912.66)
Add: Interest on foreign currency convertible bonds (net of tax)
-
 0.33
Adjusted net profit/ (loss) after tax
2,162.76
(912.33)
Weighted average number of equity shares
10,775,250,532
9,291,606,924
Add: Effect of dilution
	
Foreign currency convertible bonds
-
386,356,678
	
Share warrants
-
498,588,439
Weighted average number of equity shares for diluted EPS
10,775,250,532
10,176,552,041
Diluted earnings / (loss) per share (₹) of face value of ₹ 2 each
2.01
(0.98)*
	
* Adjusted retrospectively for the bonus element in respect of the Right issue made during the year ended March 31, 2023.
	
Since the earnings / (loss) per share computation based on diluted weighted average number of shares is anti-
dilutive, the basic and diluted earnings / (loss) per share is the same.
37.	 Post-employment benefit plans
	
Defined contribution plan:
	
During the year the Company has recognised ₹ 8.50 Crore (previous year: ₹ 8.38 Crore) in the statement of profit 
and loss towards defined contribution plans as detailed in Note 2.3 (p)(ii)(A).
	
The Company manages provident fund plan for its employees which is permitted under the Employees’ Provident 
Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. The plan mandates contribution by employer at a fixed percentage 
of employee’s salary. Employees also contribute to the plan at a fixed percentage of their salary as a minimum 
contribution and additional sums at their discretion. The plan guarantees interest at the rate notified by Employees’ 
Provident Fund Organisation. The contribution by employer and employee together with interest are payable at the 
time of separation from service or retirement whichever is earlier. The benefit under this plan vests immediately on 
rendering of service.
	
The Superannuation scheme of the Company has the form of a trust and is governed by the Board of Trustees. The 
scheme is partially funded with an insurance company in the form of a qualifying insurance policy.
	
Defined benefit plan:
	
The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan. The gratuity plan is governed by the payment of Gratuity Act, 
1972. Under the act, Employee who has completed five years of service is eligible for gratuity. Gratuity is computed 
based on 15 days salary based on last drawn salary for each completed year of service.
	
The fund has the form of a trust and is governed by the Board of Trustees. The scheme is partially funded with an 
insurance company in the form of a qualifying insurance policy.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
257
	
37.1	Net defined benefits expense recognised in statement of profit and loss and OCI:
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Current service cost
3.62
3.56
Net interest cost
1.40
1.35
Total expense recognised in statement of profit and loss
5.02
4.91
Re-measurement for the period - obligation (gain)/ loss
6.30
(2.23)
Re-measurement for the period – plan assets (gain)/ loss
(0.59)
0.55
Total expense recognised in OCI
5.71
(1.67)
Total
10.73
3.23
	
37.2	Changes in the defined benefit obligation:
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Opening defined benefit obligation
40.68
39.04
Current service cost
3.62
3.56
Interest cost
2.77
2.50
Benefits paid
(7.90)
(2.02)
Acquisition adjustments / settlement cost
-
(0.17)
Re-measurement adjustment:
Experience adjustments
4.50
(0.84)
Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic assumptions
0.43
(0.07)
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
1.37
(1.32)
Closing defined benefit obligation
45.47
40.68
	
37.3	Changes in the fair value of plan assets:
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Opening fair value of plan assets
20.17
17.92
Interest income
1.37
1.15
Contributions by employer towards approved fund
2.21
3.84
Benefits paid
(7.90)
(2.02)
Acquisition adjustments / settlement cost
-
(0.17)
Re-measurements - return on plan assets, excluding amount recognised 
in net interest expense
0.59
(0.55)
Closing fair value of plan assets
16.44
20.17
Actual return on plan assets
1.96
0.43
	
37.4	Funds managed by insurer is 100% for March 31, 2023 (previous year: 100%). The composition of investments in 
respect of funded defined benefit plans are not available with the Company, the same has not been disclosed.
	
37.5	Net asset / (liability) recognised in the balance sheet:
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Current portion
3.81
6.37
Non-current portion
41.66
34.31
Present value of defined benefit obligation as at the end of the financial 
year
45.47
40.68
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
16.44
20.17
Net asset / (liability) recognised in the balance sheet
(29.03)
(20.51)
Annual Report 2022-23
258
	
37.6	Principal assumptions used in determining long term employee benefits:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Discount rate (in %)
7.40
6.80
Future salary increases (in %)
9%
8%
Life expectation (in years)
8.51
7.75
Attrition rate
25.60 % at 
younger ages 
and reducing to 
6.20 % at older 
ages according to 
graduated scales.
21.50% at 
younger ages 
and reducing to 
6.80% at older 
ages according to 
graduated scale
	
	
During the year, the Company has reassessed the actuarial assumption for attrition rate based on trend of 
attrition.
	
37.7	Quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption:
Particulars
 March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Discount rate (- / + 1%)
4.21
(3.66)
3.37
(2.94)
Future salary increases (- / + 1%)
(3.64)
4.10
(2.94)
3.30
Attrition rate (- / + 50% of attrition rates)
1.59
(1.09)
1.20
(0.76)
	
	
For the year ending on March 31, 2024, the Company expects to contribute ₹ 32.96 Crore (previous year: 
₹ 23.94 Crore) towards its defined benefit plan.
	
	
The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the financial year is 9 years (previous 
year: 8 years).
38.	 Leases
	
38.1	Company as a lessee
	
The Company has lease contracts for land and buildings used in its operations. Leases of land, plant and 
machinery generally have lease terms between 2 to 3 years. The Company’s obligations under its leases 
are secured by the lessor’s title to the leased assets. Generally, the Company is restricted from assigning 
and subleasing the leased assets. The Company also has certain leases of premises with lease terms of 12 
months or less and with low value. The Company applies the ‘short-term lease’ and ‘lease of low-value assets’ 
recognition exemptions for these leases.
	
	
a.	
The movement in ROU assets during the year and carrying value are as follows:
Particulars
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Opening balance
58.96
69.20
Additions
-
-
Deletions
(39.90)
-
Depreciation expense
(9.87)
(10.25)
Closing balance
9.19
58.96
	
	
b.	
The movement in lease liabilities during the year are as follows:
Particulars
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Opening balance
53.01
61.54
Additions
-
-
Deletions
(33.06)
-
Finance cost accrued during the year
4.20
6.03
Payment of lease liabilities
(13.95)
(14.56)
Closing balance
10.20
53.01
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
259
	
	
c.	
The following are the amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss:
Particulars
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Depreciation expense on right-of-use assets
9.87
10.25
Interest expense on lease liabilities
4.20
6.03
Rental expense for short-term leases (under other expenses)
11.78
11.21
Total
25.85
27.49
	
	
d.	
Details of contractual maturities of lease liabilities are as follows:
Particulars
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Not later than one year
5.21
9.87
Later than one year and not later than five years
4.99
12.69
Later than five years
-
30.45
Total
10.20
53.01
	
	
	
The effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 9% with maturity between 2024 and 2025.
	
	
	
During the year, the Company had total cash outflows for leases of ₹ 25.73 Crore (previous year 
₹ 25.77 Crore).
	
38.2 Company as a lessor
	
	
The Company has entered into operating leases on its investment property portfolio consisting of certain 
office premises (refer Note 9). These leases have terms between two to ten years. All leases include a clause 
to enable upward revision of the rental charge on an annual basis according to prevailing market conditions. 
Rental income recognised by the Company during the year is ₹ 8.88 Crore (previous year: ₹ 9.22 Crore).
	
	
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases as at year-end are as follows:
Particulars
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Not later than one year
0.94
0.86
Later than one year and not later than five years
3.13
3.89
Later than five years
-
-
Total
4.07
4.75
39.	 Capital commitments
	
Estimated amount of contract remaining to be executed on capital accounts and not provided for, net of advances 
stands at ₹ 8.58 Crore (previous year: ₹ 19.02 Crore).
40.	 Contingent liabilities and other commitments
 March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Guarantees given on behalf of subsidiaries towards loans/ guarantee granted 
to them by banks/ financial institutions
26.65
33.40
Customs duty and service tax pending in appeal *
156.34
127.10
Amounts in respect of MSMED
0.40
0.91
 Total
183.39
161.41
	
* includes demand from tax authorities for various matters. The Company / tax department has preferred appeals on these matters 
and the same are pending with various appellate authorities. Considering the facts of the matters, no provision is considered 
necessary by management.
	
The Company has received a SCN from SEBI and has responded to the SCN denying the allegations and filed a 
settlement application in accordance the SEBI Settlement Regulations (refer Note 5).
Annual Report 2022-23
260
	
A few law suits have been filed on the Company by some of their suppliers for disputes in fulfilment of obligations as 
per supply agreements. Further, few customers of the Company have disputed certain amount as receivable which 
the Company believes is contractually not payable. These matters are pending for hearing before respective courts, 
the outcome of which is uncertain. The management has provided for an amount as a matter of prudence which it 
believes shall be the probable outflow of resources.
	
The Company has stood as co-borrower and guarantor for loans granted to the Company and its identified domestic 
subsidiaries for which certain securities defined in Note 21.4 are provided, the amount of which liability of each of 
parties is not ascertainable.
41.	 Segment information
	
As permitted by paragraph 4 of Ind AS-108, ‘Operating Segments’, if a single financial report contains both 
consolidated financial statements and the separate financial statements of the parent, segment information need to 
be presented only on the basis of the consolidated financial statements. Thus, disclosures required by Ind AS-108 
are given in consolidated financial statements.
42.	 Related party transactions
	
42.1	 List of related parties
Subsidiaries
1
AE-Rotor Holding B.V.
19
Suzlon Wind Energy (Lanka) Pvt Limited
2
Gale Green Urja Limited
20
Suzlon Wind Energy BH(vii)
3
Manas Renewables Limited
21
Suzlon Wind Energy Espana, S. L
4
SE Blades Technology B.V.
22
Suzlon Wind Energy Limited
5
SE Drive Technik GmbH
23
Suzlon Wind Energy Nicaragua Sociedad Anonima
6
SE Forge Limited
24
Suzlon Wind Energy Equipment Trading (Shanghai) Co., 
Ltd.
7
Sirocco Renewables Limited
25
Suzlon Wind Energy Romania SRL
8
Seventus LLC(i)
26
Suzlon Wind Energy South Africa (PTY) Ltd
9
Suryoday Renewables Limited
27
Suzlon Wind Energy Uruguay SA
10
Suyash Renewables Limited
28
Suzlon Wind Energy Portugal Energia Elocia Unipessoal 
Lda
11
Suzlon Energy A/S, Denmark
29
Suzlon Wind Enerji Sanayi Ve Ticaret Sirketi
12
Suzlon Energy Australia Pty Ltd
30
SWE Renewables Limited
13
Suzlon Energy B.V.
31
SWE Wind Project Services Limited
14
Suzlon Energy Korea Co Ltd
32
Tarilo Holding B.V.
15
Suzlon Energy Limited, Mauritius
33
Vakratunda Renewables Limited
16
Suzlon Global Services Limited
34
Valum Holding B.V.(ix)
17
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
35
Varadvinayak Renewables Limited
18
Suzlon Rotor Corporation
36
Vignaharta Renewable Energy Limited
Associates
1
Aalok Solarfarms Limited
4
Shreyas Solarfarms Limited
2
Abha Solarfarms Limited
5
Suzlon Energy (Tianjin) Limited
3
Heramba Renewables Limited
Joint ventures
1
Consortium Suzlon Padgreen Co Ltd(ix)
3
Vayudoot Solarfarms Limited (refer Note 48 c)
2
Suzlon Generators Limited (refer Note 48 b)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
261
Entities where KMP have significant influence (EKMP)
1
AspenPark Infra Vadodara Private Limited(iv)
4
Sarjan Realities Private Limited
2
SE Freight and Logistics India Private Limited
5
Shubh Realty (South) Private Limited
3
Samanvaya Holdings Private Limited
6
Tanti Holdings Private Limited
Key Management Personnel (KMP)
1
Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti(viii)
9
Mr. Himanshu Mody
2
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti(viii)
10
Ms. Geetanjali S. Vaidya
3
Mr. Girish R. Tanti(viii)
11
Mr. Gautam Doshi
4
Mr. Pranav T. Tanti(viii)
12
Mr. Sameer Shah
5
Mr. Marc Desaedeleer
13
Mr. Hiten Timbadia
6
Mr. Per Hornung Pedersen
14
Mr. Ajay Mathur(v)
7
Mr. Ashwani Kumar(ii)
15
Ms. Seemantinee Khot
8
Mr. J. P. Chalasani(iii)
16
Mr. Rakesh Sharma(vi)
Relatives of Key Management Personnel (RKMP)
1
Ms. Rambhaben Ukabhai
Employee funds
1 	 Suzlon Energy Limited – Superannuation fund 2. Suzlon Energy Limited – Employees group gratuity scheme
	
	
i.	
Ceased w.e.f. March 30, 2023	
	
	
	
ii.	
Ceased w.e.f April 05, 2023
	
	
iii. 	
Appointed w.e.f. April 05, 2023	
	
	
	
iv.	
Ceased w.e.f February 04, 2023
	
	
v. 	
Appointed w.e.f August 10, 2022	 	
	
	
vi.	
Ceased w.e.f June 08, 2022
	
	
vii. 	
Divested during the year.
	
	
viii.	
Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti, the Founder, the Chairman & Managing Director, and one of the promoters of the 
Company passed away on October 01, 2022. Consequent to the same and pursuant to the approval of the 
Board of Directors at its meeting held on October 07, 2022 and approval of the shareholders at its general 
meeting held on, January 05, 2023:
	
	
	
•	
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti has been appointed as the Chairman & Managing Director,
	
	
	
•	
Mr. Girish R. Tanti has been appointed as an Executive Director designated as Executive Vice Chairman, 
and
	
	
	
•	
Mr. Pranav T. Tanti has been appointed as an Additional Director.
	
	
ix.	
Valum Holding B.V. ceased to be subsidiary with effect from May 15, 2023 pursuant to dissolution. 
Consequently, Consortium Suzlon Padgreen Co Ltd ceased to be joint venture of the Company with 
effect from May 15, 2023.
Annual Report 2022-23
262
	
42.2 Transactions between the Company and related parties during the year and the status of outstanding 
balances as at March 31, 2023:
Particulars
Subsidiaries
EKMP
JV Associate
KMP/ RKMP
Employee 
funds
Sale of property, plant and 
equipmen
0.88
-
-
-
-
-
(0.01)
(-)
(-)
 (-)
(-)
(-)
Subscription to equity shares of the 
Company under Rights issue
-
112.83
-
-
61.18
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Loan given
419.59
-
-
-
-
-
(714.41)
(-)
(53.93)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Realisation of loan given
704.09
-
-
-
-
-
(1,865.00)
(-)
(75.65)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Loan taken
-
-
-
-
-
-
(1,529.89)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Repayment of loan taken
-
-
-
-
-
-
(1,622.85)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Purchase of goods and services
300.67
-
-
-
-
-
(334.51)
(43.35)
(132.09)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Sale of goods and services
49.60
-
-
-
-
-
(69.93)
(-)
(53.08)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Interest income
217.78
-
-
0.00*
-
-
(281.31)
(-)
(1.62)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Lease rent income
0.91
0.92
-
-
-
-
(1.66)
(1.12)
(0.03)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Other operating income
40.00
-
-
-
-
-
(42.39)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Interest cost
69.78
-
-
-
-
-
(86.13)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Advances given for goods and 
services
-
-
-
-
-
-
(166.25)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Managerial remuneration
-
-
-
-
21.23
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(11.13)
(-)
Director sitting fees
-
-
-
-
0.46
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.53)
(-)
Contribution to various funds
-
-
-
-
-
2.52
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(4.43)
Reimbursement of expenses 
payable
4.89
-
-
-
-
-
(40.79)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Reimbursement of expenses 
receivable
23.45
-
-
-
-
-
(17.03)
(-)
(0.12)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
263
	
	
Outstanding balances:
Particulars
Subsidiaries
EKMP
JV
Associates
KMP
Employee 
funds
Contract liabilities
-
-
-
-
-
-
(78.32)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Investments in equity shares and 
preference shares
9,024.18
-
-
65.33
-
-
(9,216.67)
(-)
(71.43)
(65.33)
(-)
(-)
Impairment allowance on 
investments
7,665.03
-
-
59.74
 -
-
(7,859.64)
(-)
(7.21)
(59.74)
(-)
(-)
Investments in Compulsorily 
Convertible Debentures
394.73
-
-
22.22
-
-
(394.94)
(-)
-
(22.22)
(-)
(-)
Trade receivables
42.60
0.01
-
-
-
-
(32.92)
(0.23)
(6.98)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Impairment allowance on trade 
receivable
4.84
-
-
-
-
-
(6.42)
(-)
(3.92)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Loan given
1,963.24
-
-
0.01
-
-
(1,657.10)
(-)
(-)
(0.01)
(-)
(-)
Impairment allowance on loans
718.82
-
-
-
-
-
(1,553.17)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Interest accrued but not due
(0.00)*
-
-
-
-
-
(0.01)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Payable towards debt assignment
562.99
-
-
-
-
-
(498.22)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Security deposit taken
-
0.08
-
-
-
-
(-)
(0.08)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Advance to supplier and other 
asset
5,226.25
-
-
-
-
-
(4,900.04)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Impairment allowance on other 
assets
5,049.53
-
-
-
-
-
(4,816.42)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Trade payables
739.83
5.56
-
-
-
-
(622.54)
(6.43)
(0.01)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Guarantees
26.65
-
-
-
-
-
(33.40)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Director sitting fees payable
-
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.08)
(-)
Other financial asset
-
-
-
-
-
-
(7.16)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Other current financial liabilities
78.09
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
	
	
Figures in bracket are in respect of previous year.
Annual Report 2022-23
264
	
42.3 Disclosure of significant transactions with related parties
Type of transaction
Type of 
relationship
Name of the entity
Year ended March 31,
2023
2022
Sale of property, plant and 
equipment
Subsidiary
SE Forge Limited
-
0.01
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global services Limited
0.88
-
Loan given
Subsidiary
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
166.13
526.33
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global Services Limited
253.46
188.07
Subscription to equity 
shares of the Company 
under Rights issue
RKMP
Rambhaben Ukabhai
60.62
-
EKMP
Tanti Holdings Private Limited
67.50
-
EKMP
Samanvaya Holdings Private Limited
35.18
-
Realisation of loan given
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global Services limited
575.63
976.62
Subsidiary
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
128.46
887.97
Loan taken
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global Services Limited
-
1,529.89
Repayment of loan taken
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global Services Limited
-
1,622.85
Purchase of goods and 
services
Subsidiary
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
-
1.18
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global Services Limited
204.52
245.18
Joint venture
Suzlon Generators Limited
-
132.09
EKMP
SE Freight & Logistics India Pvt Ltd
-
43.35
Subsidiary
SE Forge Limited
 86.07
 77.50
Sale of goods and services
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global Services Limited
44.40
68.10
Subsidiary
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
0.38
-
Subsidiary
Suzlon Energy A/S, Denmark
0.43
0.67
Joint venture
Suzlon Generators Limited
-
53.08
Advances given for goods 
and services
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global Services Limited
-
166.25
Other income
Subsidiary
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
0.57
30.24
Subsidiary
AE Rotor Holding B.V.
40.09
39.17
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global Services Limited
168.79
209.42
Lease rent income
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global Services Limited
1.39
Subsidiary
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
0.24
0.26
EKMP
Sarjan Realties Private Limited
0.92
1.12
Other operating income
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global Services Limited
40.00
40.00
Interest cost
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global Services Limited
69.76
86.13
Managerial remuneration
KMP
Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti
4.62
2.11
KMP
Mr. Swapnil Jain
-
1.00
KMP
Mr. Vinod R Tanti
5.05
2.40
KMP
Mr. Himanshu Mody
6.93
3.03
KMP
Mr. Ashwani Kumar
4.01
2.25
Director sitting fees
KMP
Mr. Girish R. Tanti
0.07
0.06
KMP
Mr. Marc Desaedeleer
0.05
0.07
KMP
Mr. Sameer Shah
0.06
0.07
KMP
Ms. Seemantinee Khot
0.05
0.06
KMP
Mr. Gautam Doshi
0.04
0.07
KMP
Mr. Per Hornung Pedersen
0.07
0.08
KMP
Mr. Rakesh Sharma
0.01
0.06
KMP
Mr. Hiten Timbadia
0.05
0.06
Contribution to various 
funds
Employee 
funds
SEL-Superannuation fund
0.20
0.09
Employee 
funds
SEL-Employees group gratuity 
scheme
2.32
4.34
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
265
Type of transaction
Type of 
relationship
Name of the entity
Year ended March 31,
2023
2022
Reimbursement of 
expenses payable
Subsidiary
Suzlon Energy Australia Pty. Ltd
-
17.73
Subsidiary
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
0.82
-
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global Services Limited
4.06
23.06
Reimbursement of 
expenses receivable
Subsidiary
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
0.13
0.14
Subsidiary
Suzlon Global Services Limited
22.98
16.41
Subsidiary
SE Forge Limited
0.34
-
	
42.4 Compensation of key management personnel of the Company recognised as an expense during the 
financial year:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Short-term employee benefits
20.24
10.40
Post-employment benefits
0.99
0.73
Total
21.23
11.13
	
42.5 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
	
	
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s 
length transactions. Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash. There 
have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables. This assessment 
is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market 
in which the related party operates.
43.	 Fair value measurements
	
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are considered to be same as their carrying values except for 
investments in unquoted redeemable cumulative preference shares and put option liability where the fair value 
has been estimated using the discounted cash flow (‘DCF’) model. The valuation requires the management to 
make certain assumptions about the model inputs, including forecast cash flows, the discount rate, credit risk and 
volatility. The probabilities of the various estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed and are used in 
management’s estimate of fair value for these unquoted instruments.
	
43.1 Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuation:
Valuation 
technique
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
Range 
(weighted 
average)
Sensitivity of the input to fair value and 
impact on Profit before tax and Equity
FVTPL redeemable 
cumulative 
preference shares
DCF method
Incremental 
borrowing rate
March 31, 2023 
:10 % to 12%
March 31, 2022: 
10% to 12%
1% increase in growth rate would result in 
increase of income by ₹ 0.12 Crore (previous 
year: ₹ 0.09 Crore) and 1% decrease in 
growth rate would result in decrease of 
income by ₹ 0.13 Crore (previous year: 
₹ 0.10 Crore)
FVTPL Put Option –
(Financial liability) 
(refer Note 22 a)
Income 
Approach – 
DCF
Discount rate
March 31, 2023 
– Nil
March 31, 2022 
– 13% discount 
rate
1% increase in discount rate would result in 
increase in fair value by ₹ Nil (previous year: 
₹ 48.58 Crore) and 1% decrease in discount 
rate would result in decrease in fair value by 
₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 47.88 Crore).
44.	 Fair value hierarchy
	
There are no transfers between level 1 and level 2 and level 3 during the year and earlier comparative periods. The 
Company’s policy is to recognise transfers into and transfers out of fair value hierarchy levels as at the end of the 
financial year.
Annual Report 2022-23
266
	
44.1 Quantitative disclosure of fair value hierarchy of the Company’s assets and liabilities:
Level 3
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss
Investment in Saraswat Co-operative Bank Ltd.
0.01
 0.01
Investment in government securities
0.01
 0.01
Investment in redeemable preference shares
27.41
25.30
27.43
25.32
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss:
Option value liability (refer Note 22 a)
-
2,347.50
-
2,347.50
	
44.2 Reconciliation of financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Investment
Opening balance
25.32
23.50
Additions during the year
0.10
-
Other income recognised in statement of profit and loss
2.01
1.82
Closing balance
27.43
25.32
Financial liabilities
Opening balance
2,347.50
2,063.65
Addition during the year
-
-
Finance cost recognised in statement of profit and loss
45.78
283.85
Extinguishment of liability during the year
(2,393.28)
-
Closing balance
-
2,347.50
45.	 Financial risk management
	
The Company’s principal financial liabilities, comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other liabilities. The main 
purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s operations and to provide support to its operations. 
The Company’s principal financial assets include investments, loans, trade and other assets, and cash and cash 
equivalents that the company derive directly from its operations. The Company also holds FVTPL investments.
	
The Company is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk which may adversely impact the fair value of 
its financial instruments. The Company has constituted an internal Risk Management Committee (‘RMC’), which is 
responsible for developing and monitoring the Company’s risk management framework. The focus of the RMC is 
that the Company’s financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial 
risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with the Company’s policies and risk objectives. It is the 
Company’s policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes may be undertaken. The Risk Management 
Policy is approved by the Board of Directors.
	
45.1 Market risk
	
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and 
price risk, such as commodity risk. The Company’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of interest 
risk and foreign currency risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings, 
FVTPL investments and derivative financial instruments.
	
	
The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022.
	
	
a.	
Interest rate risk
	
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate 
because of changes in market interest rates.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
267
	
	
b.	
Foreign currency risk and sensitivity
	
	
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because 
of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange 
rates relates primarily to the Company’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in 
a foreign currency) and the Company’s borrowings and loans and investments in foreign subsidiaries.
	
	
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk as at the end of the financial year expressed in ` Crore 
are as follows:
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
USD
EURO
Others
USD
EURO
Others
Financial assets
Loans
-
635.36
-
-
597.23
-
Investments
-
6,898.85
68.43
-
6,898.85
68.43
Trade receivables
51.35
0.57
0.06
72.26
13.17
3.58
Bank balances
-
 -
-
-
-
0.96
Other assets
 1.79
3.45
19.59
1.92
3.25
22.88
Total
53.14
7,538.23
88.08
74.18
7,512.50
95.85
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
4.35
-
-
74.39
-
-
Trade payables
336.68
4.27
58.99
405.29
6.72
64.30
Total
341.03
4.27
58.99
479.68
6.72
64.30
	
	
	
Foreign currency sensitivity
	
	
	
The Company’s currency exposures in respect of monetary items as at March 31, 2023, March 31, 2022 
that result in net currency gains and losses in the income statement and equity arise principally from 
movement in US Dollar and Euro exchange rates.
	
	
	
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD and EURO 
exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. The Company’s exposure to foreign currency 
changes for all other currencies is not material. The other currencies includes Australian Dollar, Great 
Britain Pound, Danish Kroner etc.
Currency
Change in
currency rate
Effect on profit before tax and equity
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
USD
+5%
(14.39)
(20.28)
USD
-5%
14.39
20.28
EURO
+5%
31.76
30.35
EURO
-5%
(31.76)
(30.35)
	
45.2 Credit risk
	
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counter-party fails to meet its contractual 
obligations. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) 
and from its financing activities (primarily loans). The Company consistently monitors the financial health of 
its customers and sales proceeds are being realised as per the milestone payment terms agreed to minimise 
the loss due to defaults or insolvency of the customer. Progressive liquidity management is being followed to 
de-risk the Company from any non-fulfilment of its liabilities to various creditors, statutory obligations, or any 
stakeholders.
	
	
a.	
Trade receivables
	
	
The Company’s exposure to trade receivables is limited due to diversified customer base. The Company 
consistently monitors progress under its contracts with customers and sales proceeds are being realised 
as per the milestone payment terms agreed to minimise the loss due to defaults or insolvency of the 
customer.
	
	
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients. In 
addition, a large number of minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for 
impairment collectively.
Annual Report 2022-23
268
	
	
b.	
Financial instruments
	
	
Financial instruments that are subject to concentrations of credit risk primarily consist of cash and cash 
equivalents, term deposit with banks, loans given to subsidiaries and other financial assets. Investments 
of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned.
	
	
The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk as at March 31, 2023 and as at March 31, 2022 is the 
carrying value of each class of financial assets.
	
	
Refer Note 2.3 (q) for accounting policy on financial instruments.
	
45.3 Liquidity risk
	
	
Liquidity risk refers to that risk where the Company cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of 
liquidity risk management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as 
per requirement. In doing this, management considers both normal and stressed conditions. The Company 
manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities by continuously monitoring cash 
flow forecast and by matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
	
	
The table below summarises the contractual maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities:
On 
demand
Up to 
1 year
2-5
years
> 5 years
Total
March 31, 2023
Borrowings
-
323.02
1,329.67
679.31
2,332.00
Lease liabilities
-
5.21
4.99
-
10.20
Other financial liabilities
-
220.99
3.39
-
224.38
Trade and other payables
-
1,062.09
-
-
1,062.09
Total
-
1,611.31
1,338.05
679.31
3,628.67
March 31, 2022
Borrowings
-
486.54
1,248.67
2,526.02
4,261.23
Lease liabilities
-
9.87
12.69
30.45
53.01
Other financial liabilities
-
211.09
2,351.73
-
2,562.82
Trade and other payables
-
1,815.94
-
-
1,815.94
Total
-
2,523.44
3,613.09
2,556.47
8,693.00
46.	 Disclosure required under Sec 186(4) of the Companies Act, 2013
	
For details of loans and guarantees given to related parties refer Note 13 and Note 40, Loans and guarantees are 
given for general corporate purposes.
	
For details of securities provided on behalf of borrowers under the RTL Agreement refer Note 21.4.
	
For details of investments made refer Note 11.
47.	 Ratios and its elements
Ratio
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
% change
Current ratio(i)
Current assets/ Current liabilities
0.84
 0.88
(4.51)
Debt - Equity ratio(ii)
Total debt/ Shareholders equity
1.64
 (1.09)
250.06
Debt service coverage ratio(ii)
EBITDA (excluding non-cash expenses)/ (Interest + 
principal repayments)
0.06
 0.14
(54.94)
Return on Equity ratio(vi)
Net profit after tax - Preference dividend (if any)/ Equity 
shareholder’s funds
1.52
0.23 #
5.50
Inventory turnover ratio(i)
Sales/average inventory
3.67
 3.92
(6.31)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
269
Ratio
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
% change
Trade receivables turnover ratio(i)
Sales/ average receivables
5.83
 7.59
(23.24)
Trade payable turnover ratio(i)
Net credit purchases/ average payables
1.98
 2.50
(20.79)
Net capital turnover ratio(i)
Sales (includes only revenue from operation and other 
operating income)/ Working capital = current assets - 
current liabilities
(8.94)
(9.97)
(10.35)
Net profit ratio (%)(iii)
Net profit before exceptional items/ Sales
(10.72)%
 (20.87)%
48.64
Return on capital employed (%)(i)
Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)/ Capital employed 
= total assets - current liabilities
32.36%
28.56%
13.30
Return on investment (%)(v)
Finance income/ Investment
5.93%
3.37%
75.73
	
Reasons for variance
	
(i)	
There is no significant change (i.e. change of more than 25% as compared to the immediately previous financial 
year) in the key financial ratios.
	
(ii)	
During the year there was substantial reduction in debt pursuant to implementation of Refinancing Proposal 
(refer Note 4 and 21), resulting in increase in Other equity and hence change in the ratio.
(iii)	
Improved margins, profitability and reduction in debt has resulted in improvement of certain ratios.
(iv)	
Reduced volume and increase in capital employed as a result of retirement of trade payables and current 
borrowings resulted in reduction in ratio.
(v)	
The movement in ratio is towards increase in inter-corporate deposit resulting in added interest income as 
compared to previous year.
(vi)	
The improvement in ratio is due to exceptional gain.
	
	
# Since there was loss during the year and negative net worth, the ratio appears to be positive.
48.	 Other information
a.	
On June 29, 2021, Suzlon Wind Energy Corporation (‘SWECO’), wholly owned step-down subsidiary of the 
Company based in USA filed for voluntary bankruptcy liquidation under Chapter 7 of the US Bankruptcy 
Code. Accordingly, on loss of control, SWECO ceased to be a subsidiary of the Company with effect from 
June 29, 2021.
b.	
On April 07, 2022, Suzlon Generators Limited (‘SGL’) ceased to be a joint venture of the Company pursuant to 
divestment of SEL’s 75% stake in SGL to Voith Turbo Private Limited and accordingly reversal of impairment on 
investment was disclosed under exceptional items during the year ended March 31, 2022.
c.	
On December 03, 2022, Vayudoot Solarfarms Limited ceased to be a joint venture of the Company pursuant to 
divestment of its entire stake of 51.05% to Aries Renewables Private Limited for a consideration to ₹ 14.23 Crore.
d.	
The Company do not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against 
the Company for holding any Benami property.
e.	
The Company do not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the 
statutory period.
f.	
The Company have not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
g.	
The Company have not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall
i.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
ii.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
Annual Report 2022-23
270
h.	
The Company have not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (funding 
party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall
	
i.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
ii.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
i.	
The Company have not any such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been 
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 
(such as, search or survey).
j.	
The current liabilities of the Company in standalone financial statements exceed current assets by ₹ 401.63 
Crore as at March 31, 2023. Further, as per the terms of the RTL Agreement, STG need to fulfil certain obligations, 
failing which it could trigger an event of default within next 12 months from reporting date. The Management 
is confident of meeting the obligations in the foreseeable future through various options including execution 
of the orders in hand, future business plans, seeking additional facilities refinancing the existing facilities and 
seeking proposing extension for monetisation of specified assets, if required. Accordingly, the standalone 
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023 have been prepared on the basis that the Company 
will continue as a going concern.
k.	
During the year, Suzlon Global Services Limited (‘SGSL’), Suzlon Power Infrastructure Limited (‘SPIL’) and 
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited (‘SGWPL’), subsidiaries of the Company, have implemented (i) a Scheme 
of Amalgamation involving merger by absorption (‘Scheme 1’) of SPIL with SGSL and (ii) the Scheme of 
Arrangement involving transfer and vesting of Project Execution Business (‘Demerged Undertaking I’) and 
Power Evacuation Business (‘Demerged Undertaking II’) (‘Scheme 2’) of SGWPL into SGSL. Certified copy of the 
Orders in connection with amalgamation and arrangement of these subsidiaries issued by the respective NCLT 
were filed with the Registrar of Companies on September 29, 2022. The amalgamation and arrangement are in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 230 to 232 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the Rules made thereunder. The amalgamation and arrangement are among the entities forming part 
of the Group under common control and have been accounted in accordance with the applicable accounting 
standards under IND AS and as prescribed in the Schemes approved by NCLT in the standalone financial 
results of SGSL and SGWPL. Upon implementation of the merger, SPIL cease to exist.
49.	 Capital management
	
For the purpose of the Company’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital, share premium and 
all other equity reserves attributable to the equity holders of the Company. The primary objective of the Company’s 
capital management is to safeguard its ability to reduce the cost of capital and to maximise shareholder value.
	
The capital structure of the Company is based on the management’s judgement of its strategic and day-to-day 
needs with a focus on total equity so as to maintain investor, creditors and market confidence.
	
The calculation of the capital for the purpose of capital management is as below.
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Equity share capital
2,454.40
1,843.49
Other equity
(1,035.01)
(5,735.58)
Total
1,419.39
(3,892.09)
50.	 Prior year amounts have been reclassified wherever necessary to confirm with current year presentation.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Suzlon Energy Limited
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
J. P. Chalasani
Group Chief Executive Officer
Himanshu Mody
Group Chief Financial Officer
Geetanjali S. Vaidya 
Company Secretary 
Membership No.: A18026 
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
271
FORM AOC-1
(Persuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
PART A - Subsidiaries
STATEMENT CONTAINING SALIENT FEATURES OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF SUBSIDIARIES AS PER COMPANIES ACT, 2013
All amounts in ₹ Crore, except % of shareholding and exchange rate
Sl. 
No.
Name of subsidiary
Financial 
period 
ended
Date of 
acquisition
Reporting 
currency
Exchange 
rate (`)
Share 
capital
Reserve & 
surplus
Total 
assets
Total 
liabilities
Investment Turnover
Profit / 
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provision 
for 
taxation
Profit /
(loss) after 
taxation
Proposed 
dividend
% of 
Shareholding
1
AE-Rotor Holding B.V. March 31, 
2023
June 8, 
2001
EURO
 89.3783  6,142.41  (11,901.57)
 79.23  5,838.39 
 - 
 -  (421.25)
 - 
 (421.25)
 - 
100.00%
2
Gale Green Urja 
Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
`
 1.0000 
 -* 
 (0.04)
 -* 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
70.00%
3
Manas Renewables 
Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
`
 1.0000 
 -* 
 (0.25)
 -* 
 0.25 
 - 
 - 
 (0.02)
 - 
 (0.02)
 - 
100.00%
4
SE Blades Technology 
B.V. 
March 31, 
2023
June 8, 
2001
EURO
 89.3783 
 0.16 
 (23.95)
 78.51 
 102.30 
 - 
 - 
 (4.03)
 - 
 (4.03)
 - 
100.00%
5
SE Drive Technik 
GmbH
March 31, 
2023
NA
EURO
 89.3783 
 0.22 
 (1,566.18)
 0.21 
 1,566.17 
 - 
 - 
 (13.37)
 - 
 (13.37)
 - 
100.00%
6
SE Forge Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
`
 1.0000 
 784.92 
 (605.11)
 472.21 
 292.40 
 - 
 471.79 
 (35.05)
 - 
 (35.05)
 - 
100.00%
7
Sirocco Renewables 
Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
`
 1.0000 
 -* 
 (1.98)
 -* 
 1.98 
 - 
 - 
 (0.18)
 - 
 (0.18)
 - 
100.00%
8
Suryoday Renewables 
Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
`
 1.0000 
 0.06 
 5.97 
 6.03 
 -* 
 - 
 - 
 -* 
 -* 
 (0.01)
 - 
100.00%
9
Suyash Renewables 
Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
`
 1.0000 
 -* 
 (0.04)
 -* 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
70.00%
10
Suzlon Energy A/S 
March 31, 
2023
NA
EURO
 89.3783 
 683.48 
 (692.95)
 146.18 
 155.65 
 44.92 
 47.54 
 72.00 
 - 
 72.00 
 - 
100.00%
11
Suzlon Energy 
Australia Pty. Ltd.
March 31, 
2023
NA
AUD
 55.0377 
 593.19 
 (597.54)
 117.70 
 122.05 
 - 
 124.92 
 (30.81)
 - 
 (30.81)
 - 
100.00%
12
Suzlon Energy B.V. 
March 31, 
2023
June 8, 
2001
USD
 82.1643 
 859.33 
 (853.11)
 11.98 
 5.76 
 - 
 - 
 24.58 
 - 
 24.58 
 - 
100.00%
13
Suzlon Energy Korea 
Co., Ltd.
March 31, 
2023
NA
KRW
 0.0631 
 0.61 
 (0.61)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
100.00%
14
Suzlon Energy 
Limited, Mauritius
March 31, 
2023
NA
EURO
 89.3783 
 104.10 
 (99.00)
 6.11 
 1.01 
 6.09 
 - 
 (0.52)
 - 
 (0.52)
 - 
100.00%
15
Suzlon Global 
Services Limited
March 31, 
2023
January 31, 
2005
`
 1.0000 
 29.37 
 (3.11) 2,489.36  2,463.10 
 -*  1,998.93 
 795.24 
 - 
 795.24 
 - 
100.00%
16
Suzlon Gujarat Wind 
Park Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
`
 1.0000  1,245.92 
 (1,271.11)
 384.01 
 409.20 
 0.01 
 61.85 
 (18.83)
 - 
 (18.83)
 - 
100.00%
17
Suzlon Rotor 
Corporation
March 31, 
2023
NA
USD
 82.1643 
 0.01 
 0.06 
 0.07 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3.37)
 - 
 (3.37)
 - 
100.00%
18
Suzlon Wind Energy 
(Lanka) Pvt. Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
LKR
 0.2497 
 0.01 
 6.07 
 8.76 
 2.68 
 - 
 3.63 
 0.54 
 0.13 
 0.41 
 - 
100.00%
Annual Report 2022-23
272
All amounts in ₹ Crore, except % of shareholding and exchange rate
Sl. 
No.
Name of subsidiary
Financial 
period 
ended
Date of 
acquisition
Reporting 
currency
Exchange 
rate (`)
Share 
capital
Reserve & 
surplus
Total 
assets
Total 
liabilities
Investment Turnover
Profit / 
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provision 
for 
taxation
Profit /
(loss) after 
taxation
Proposed 
dividend
% of 
Shareholding
19
Suzlon Wind Energy 
Equipment Trading 
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
December 
31, 2022
NA
RMB
 11.9487 
 17.80 
 (16.56)
 3.04 
 1.80 
 - 
 3.12 
 0.19 
 -* 
 0.19 
 - 
100.00%
20
Suzlon Wind Energy 
Espana, S.L
March 31, 
2023
NA
EURO
 89.3783 
 0.03 
 44.84 
 51.40 
 6.53 
 - 
 8.09 
 4.89 
 - 
 4.89 
 - 
100.00%
21
Suzlon Wind Energy 
Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
EURO
 89.3783  7,269.16  (7,270.94)
 0.02 
 1.80 
 - 
 - 
 (0.10)
 - 
 (0.10)
 - 
100.00%
22
Suzlon Wind Energy 
Nicaragua Sociedad 
Anonima
March 31, 
2023
NA
EURO
 89.3783 
 -* 
 (22.47)
 0.90 
 23.37 
 - 
 1.23 
 (1.39)
 - 
 (1.39)
 - 
100.00%
23
Suzlon Wind Energy 
Portugal Energia 
Elocia Unipessoal Lda
March 31, 
2023
NA
EURO
 89.3783 
 1.79 
 0.10 
 20.28 
 18.39 
 - 
 17.78 
 6.25 
 1.18 
 5.07 
 - 
100.00%
24
Suzlon Wind Energy 
Romania SRL
March 31, 
2023
NA
RON
 18.0613 
 -* 
 12.84 
 18.12 
 5.28 
 - 
 11.52 
 0.82 
 0.24 
 0.58 
 - 
100.00%
25
Suzlon Wind Energy 
South Africa (PTY) 
Ltd
March 31, 
2023
October 11, 
2010
ZAR
 4.6176 
 225.07 
 (250.17)
 67.44 
 92.54 
 - 
 23.44 
 2.34 
 - 
 2.34 
 - 
80.00%
26
Suzlon Wind Energy 
Uruguay SA
March 31, 
2023
NA
USD
 82.1643 
 5.38 
 (23.76)
 1.37 
 19.75 
 - 
 - 
 (0.62)
 0.02 
 (0.64)
 - 
100.00%
27
Suzlon Wind Enerji 
Sanayi Ve Ticaret 
Limited Sirketi
March 31, 
2023
NA
TRY
 4.2826 
 -* 
 42.32 
 45.94 
 3.62 
 - 
 13.82 
 13.35 
 3.90 
 9.45 
 - 
100.00%
28
SWE Renewables 
Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
`
 1.0000 
 0.25 
 23.74 
 23.99 
 -* 
 - 
 - 
 -* 
 -* 
 -* 
 - 
100.00%
29
SWE Wind Project 
Services Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
`
 1.0000 
 0.13 
 11.84 
 11.97 
 -* 
 - 
 - 
 -* 
 -* 
 (0.01)
 - 
100.00%
30
Tarilo Holding B.V.
March 31, 
2023
June 18, 
2008
EURO
 89.3783 
 77.03 
 (85.33)
 0.01 
 8.31 
 - 
 - 
 (8.29)
 - 
 (8.29)
 - 
100.00%
31
Vakratunda 
Renewables Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
`
 1.0000 
 -* 
 (0.13)
 -* 
 0.13 
 - 
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
100.00%
32
Valum Holding B.V.
March 31, 
2023
October 
30, 2009
EURO
 89.3783 
 0.16 
 (0.20)
 -* 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 (0.18)
 - 
 (0.18)
 - 
100.00%
33
Varadvinayak 
Renewables Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
`
 1.0000 
 -* 
 (0.11)
 -* 
 0.11 
 - 
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
100.00%
34
Vignaharta 
Renewable Energy 
Limited
March 31, 
2023
NA
`
 1.0000 
 0.38 
 37.44 
 37.82 
 -* 
 - 
 - 
 0.08 
 0.02 
 0.06 
 - 
100.00%
* Less than Rs 0.01 Crore.
Notes:
Name of the subsidiaries which have been dissolved/merged/sold during the year:
i)	
Seventus LLC
ii)	
Suzlon Power Infrastructure Limited
iii) 	
Suzlon Wind Energy BH
iv) 	
Suzlon Generators Limited
v) 	
Vayudoot Solarfarms Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
273
PART B - Associate and joint ventures
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 129(3) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 RELATED TO ASSOCIATE 
COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES
Sl. 
No.
Name of associate/ 
joint ventures 
Suzlon Energy 
(Tianjin) Limited
Consortium 
Suzlon 
Padgreen 
Co Ltd
Aalok 
Solarfarms 
Limited 
Abha 
Solarfarms 
Limited
Heramba 
Renewables 
Limited
Shreyas 
Solarfarms 
Limited 
1
Latest audited / 
unaudited balance 
sheet date
December 31, 
2022
June 30, 2022
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2023
2
Date of acquisition
NA
NA
March 31, 
2016
March 31, 
2016
NA
March 31, 
2016
3
Shares of associate / 
joint ventures held by 
the Company on the 
year end
a
Number
N. A.
26
 1,166,250 
 1,166,250 
 2,332,500 
 2,332,500 
b
Amount of investment 
(at face value)
58.33
0.00
1.17
1.17
2.33
2.33
c
% of holding
25%
26%
25%
25%
25%
25%
4
Description of how 
there is significant 
influence 
25% stake in 
equity
26% stake in 
equity
25% stake 
in equity
25% stake in 
equity
25% stake in 
equity
25% stake in 
equity
5
Reason why the 
associate / joint 
ventures is not 
consolidated
The amount of investment has been 
fully impaired hence Nil impact in 
consolidation
Investment shown under held for sale
6
Networth attributable 
to shareholding as per 
latest audited Balance 
sheet
 - * 
 - * 
3.08
2.92
6.28
5.32
7
Profit / (loss) for the 
year
a
Considered in 
consolidation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
b
Not considered in 
consolidation
 - * 
 - * 
0.77
0.67
1.63
1.25
* Due to certain reasons, the Company could not obtain the financial statements and hence the details of financial captions mentioned 
above are not available as of March 31, 2023.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Suzlon Energy Limited
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
J. P. Chalasani 
Group Chief Executive Officer 
Himanshu Mody
Group Chief Financial Officer
Geetanjali S. Vaidya
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A18026
Place: Pune
Date : May 30, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23
274
To the Members of Suzlon Energy Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Suzlon Energy Limited (‘the Holding Company’) 
and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as ‘the Group’), its associate and joint 
venture, as listed in Annexure A, which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2023, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and 
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, including a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the 
consideration of the reports of the other auditors on separate financial statements and on the other financial information 
of the subsidiaries the aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 
2013 (‘the Act’) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards 
(‘Ind AS’) specified under section 133 of the Act, read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 
(as amended), and other accounting principles generally accepted in India of the consolidated state of affairs of the 
Group, its associate and joint venture, as at 31 March 2023, and their consolidated profit (including other comprehensive 
income), consolidated cash flows and the consolidated changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing specified under section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group, its associate and 
joint venture in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(‘ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements 
under the provisions of the Act and the rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
together with the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports referred to in paragraph 16 
of the Other Matters section below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Emphasis of Matter
4.	
We draw attention to Note 5 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, related to a show cause 
notice received by the Holding Company from SEBI in respect of certain specific transactions between the Holding 
Company and its domestic subsidiaries and disclosure of a contingent liability in respect of earlier years. Management 
believes that there is no material impact of this matters on the financial statements. Our opinion is not modified in 
respect of this matter.
Key Audit Matters
5.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment and based on the consideration of the 
reports of the other auditors on separate financial statements of the subsidiaries, associate and joint venture, were 
of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were 
addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion 
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
6.	
We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Accounting of refinancing of existing restructured 
facilities.
As described in Note 4 to the consolidated financial 
statements, during the current year, the Holding 
Company along with its identified subsidiaries namely, 
Suzlon Global Services Limited and Suzlon Gujarat
Our audit procedures in relation to accounting of 
refinancing arrangement and the treatment of resultant 
gain arising from such restructuring included but were 
not limited to the following:
•	
Obtained an understanding of and assessing 
the 
design, 
implementation 
and 
operating 
effectiveness of the key internal controls relating
CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
275
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Wind Park Limited (collectively referred to as Suzlon 
- The Group (‘STG’)), entered into an refinancing 
agreement for its existing restructured facilities. As a 
result of which, the outstanding obligations of the STG 
in respect of the erstwhile lenders were settled. 
The accounting of refinancing agreement and its 
resultant difference on account of extinguishment 
of existing restructured facilities involve complex 
assumptions and evaluation and implementation of 
the contractual terms that require the management 
to exercise their judgment. Refer Note 34 of the 
consolidated 
financial 
statements 
for 
the 
gain 
recognised due to the refinancing agreement. 
Considering the significance of the amounts, extent 
of evaluation of contractual terms involved, and 
complexities associated, we have considered this 
matter as a key audit matter.
to recognition and measurement resulting from the 
implementation of the refinancing arrangement 
and of the existing restructured facilities;•	
Obtained an understanding of the contractual 
terms of the refinancing agreement;
•	
Evaluated 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
the 
implementation of the contractual terms of 
refinancing agreement on the related liabilities 
including 
extinguishment 
of 
the 
existing 
restructured facilities;
•	
Tested the arithmetical accuracy of the resultant 
gain arising from extinguishment of the existing 
restructured facilities; and
•	
Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy of 
disclosures made in the consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with the requirements 
of applicable accounting standards.
Assessment of going concern basis of accounting 
assumption
As at 31 March 2023, while the Group has accumulated 
losses, its net equity stands at ₹ 1,099.14 Crores.
Further, during the year, the Group has entered into a 
Rupee Term Loan (‘RTL’) agreement with REC Limited and 
Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited 
(the “New Lenders”), which requires the Group to fulfil 
certain conditions including monetisation of specified 
assets, failing which it could trigger an event of default.
Whilst the above factors indicate doubt on the Group’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, however, as 
detailed in note 49(h), the management has considered 
its business plan and its response to mitigate the 
uncertainties relating to fulfilment of certain obligations 
including monetisation of specified assets within 
stipulated timelines as per the terms of RTL agreement.
Management has prepared future cash flow forecasts 
using significant estimates to develop a number 
of assumptions in respect of these uncertainties 
including, seeking additional facilities and monetisation 
of specified assets within stipulated time period, to 
assess its ability to operate as a going concern for a 
period of at least 12 months from the date of financial 
statements and concluded that the going concern basis 
of accounting used for preparation of the accompanying 
consolidated financial statements is appropriate with 
no material uncertainty over going concern. 
Our audit procedures in relation to assessment of 
appropriateness of going concern assumption included 
but were not limited to the following:
•	
Obtained an understanding of the process followed 
by management for identifying events or conditions 
that could impact the Group’s ability to continue as 
a going concern and process followed to assess 
the corresponding mitigating factors existing 
against such events or condition. Also, obtained an 
understanding around the methodology adopted 
by the Group to assess their future business 
performance including the preparation of a cash 
flow forecast for the business;
•	
Evaluated the design and tested the operating 
effectiveness of key controls relating to management’s 
assessment of going concern as above;
•	
Obtained from the management, the projected 
cash flows for the next twelve months basis their 
future approved business plans;
•	
Tested the appropriateness of the key assumptions 
used by the management that had the most material 
impact on the cash flow forecasts, and challenged 
the assumptions, judgements and estimates used in 
the cash flow projections, having regard to historical 
performance and current emerging business trends 
affecting the business and industry and discussed 
these assumptions with the management and with 
those charged with governance;
We have considered the assessment of management’s 
evaluation of going concern basis of accounting as a key 
audit matter due to the pervasive impact thereof on the 
consolidated financial statements and the significant 
judgements and assumptions that are inherently 
subjective and dependent on future events, involved in 
preparation of cash flow projections and determination 
of the overall conclusion by the management. 
•	
Performed independent sensitivity analysis to test 
the impact of the variations on the cash flows due 
to change in the key assumptions;
•	
Inspected the relevant underlying documents for 
assessing the appropriateness of projected cash 
flow for the next 12 months;
Annual Report 2022-23
276
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
•	
Tested the arithmetical accuracy of the models used 
to prepare the Group’s forecasts, which included 
understanding the data inputs, calculations and 
reporting of outputs and performing a sensitivity 
analysis of the assumptions and judgements made 
by the Management in those forecasts;
•	
Assessed the timing of various recurring and 
other events affecting significant cash inflows and 
outflows over the next twelve months and, where 
possible, the foreseeable future; and
•	
Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy 
of the disclosures made by the management in 
respect of going concern in accordance with the 
applicable accounting standards. 
Recoverability 
and 
valuation 
of 
allowance 
for 
impairment of overdue trade receivables and other 
financial assets: Power evacuation infrastructure 
receivables (‘PE receivables’)
As described in Note 12 and Note 14 to the consolidated 
financial statements, the Group has old outstanding 
trade receivables of ₹ 629.64 Crores for more than 365 
days (‘overdue trade receivables’) and PE receivables 
classified under other financial assets of ₹ 72.35 Crores 
respectively as on 31 March 2023. 
The Group recognises loss allowance for trade 
receivables and other financial assets at the expected 
credit loss ('ECL') as per the principles enunciated 
under Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments (‘Ind AS 109’). 
Assessment of the recoverability of trade receivables 
and other financial assets together with the related 
ECL is inherently subjective and requires significant 
management judgement which includes repayment 
history and financial position of entities from whom 
these balances are recoverable, terms of underlying 
arrangements, overdue balances, market conditions 
etc. Trade receivables and PE receivables comprises a 
significant portion of the current assets of the Group.
Considering the materiality of the amounts involved 
and significant degree of judgement and subjectivity 
involved in the estimates and assumptions used 
in determining the expected credit loss, we have 
considered this matter as a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included but were not limited to 
the following:
•	
Obtained an understanding of the process adopted 
by the Company in estimating expected credit 
loss including the key inputs and assumptions. 
Since assumptions and parameters are based on 
historical data, we assessed whether historical 
experience 
was 
representative 
of 
current 
circumstances and was relevant in view of the 
recent impairment losses incurred;
•	
Assessed and tested the design and operating 
effectiveness of the internal controls over the 
process of estimating recoverability and the 
allowance for impairment on trade receivables and 
PE receivables in accordance with Ind AS 109;
•	
Understanding the key inputs used in the 
provisioning model by the Group such as repayment 
history, 
terms 
of 
underlying 
arrangements, 
overdue balances, market conditions, etc.
•	
Tested the methodology applied in the credit 
loss provision calculation by comparing it to the 
requirements of Ind AS 109, and appropriateness 
and reasonableness of the assumptions related to 
credit loss rate including the historical bad-debts 
applied in their assessment of the receivables 
allowance
•	
Obtained 
balance 
confirmation 
for 
selected 
samples and verified the reconciliation for 
differences, if any for the confirmations received;
•	
Assessed the recoverability of overdue trade 
receivables and PE receivables through inquiry 
with the management and by obtaining sufficient 
corroborative evidence to support the conclusion;
•	
Assessed the net exposure after considering 
the other liabilities payable such as liquidated 
damages, claims payables to selected trade 
receivables; and
•	
Tested subsequent settlement of selected trade 
receivables after the balance sheet date.
•	
Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy of 
disclosures made in the consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with the requirements 
of applicable Accounting standards.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
277
Information other than the Consolidated Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report thereon
7.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises 
the information included in the Management discussion and analysis, Business responsibility report, and Director’s 
report including annexures thereof, but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s 
report thereon.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express 
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
	
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, 
based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
8.	
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been approved by the Holding Company’s Board of 
Directors. The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the 
Act with respect to the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial statements that give a true and 
fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated financial performance including other comprehensive 
income, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group including its associate and joint 
venture in accordance with the Ind AS specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, and other accounting principles generally accepted in India. The Holding 
Company’s Board of Directors is also responsible for ensuring accuracy of records including financial information 
considered necessary for the preparation of consolidated Ind AS financial statements. Further, in terms of the 
provisions of the Act the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group, and its associate 
company and joint venture company covered under the Act are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for preventing 
and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of 
the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the financial statements that give a true and 
fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. These financial statements have 
been used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Board of Directors of the 
Holding Company, as aforesaid.
9.	
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group and of its associate and joint venture are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group and of 
its associate and joint venture to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intend to liquidate the 
Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
10.	 Those respective Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of the 
companies included in the Group and of its associate and joint venture.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
11.	
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes 
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
12.	 As part of an audit in accordance with Standards on Auditing specified under section 143(10) of the Act we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
Annual Report 2022-23
278
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Holding Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls;
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by management;
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the ability of the Group and its associate and joint venture to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the 
related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Group and its associate and joint venture to cease to continue as a going concern;
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and 
whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation; and
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information / financial statements of the entities 
or business activities within the Group, and its associate and joint venture, to express an opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of financial 
statements of such entities included in the financial statements, of which we are the independent auditors. For 
the other entities included in the financial statements, which have been audited by the other auditors, such other 
auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
13.	 We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit.
14.	 We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
15.	 From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about 
the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in 
our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matter
16.	 We did not audit the financial statements of eighteen subsidiaries and financial information of two branches of 
the Holding Company, whose financial statements reflects total assets of ₹ 587.74 Crores at 31 March 2023, total 
revenues of ₹ 188.92 Crores and net cash flows amounting to ₹ 2.80 Crores for the year ended on that date, 
as considered in the consolidated financial statements. These financial statements have been audited by other 
auditors whose audit reports have been furnished to us by the management and our opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries 
and branches, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of section 143 of the Act in so far as it relates to the 
aforesaid subsidiaries and branches are based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
	
Our opinion above, on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on other legal and regulatory 
requirements below, are not modified in respect of the above matter with respect to our reliance on the work done 
by and the reports of the other auditors.
17.	
We did not audit the financial statements of nine subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflects total assets of 
₹ 46.37 Crores as at 31 March 2023, total revenues of ₹ 12 Crores and net cash flows amounting to ₹ (0.26) Crores 
for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements. These financial statements 
are unaudited and have been certified and furnished to us by the management and our opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of the aforesaid 
subsidiaries is based solely on such unaudited financial statements. In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us by the management, these financial statements are not material to the Group.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
279
	
Our opinion above on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
below, are not modified in respect of the above matter with respect to our reliance on the financial statements 
certified by the management.
18.	 The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2022, were audited by the 
predecessor auditor, Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP, who have expressed an unmodified opinion on those consolidated 
financial statements vide their audit report dated 25 May 2022.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
19.	 As required by section 197(16) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of the reports of the other 
auditors, referred to in paragraph 16, on separate financial statements of the subsidiaries we report that the Holding 
Company and three subsidiaries incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, have 
paid remuneration to their respective directors during the year in accordance with the provisions of and limits laid down 
under section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act. Further, we report that ten subsidiaries incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited under the Act, have not paid or provided for any managerial remuneration during 
the year. Accordingly, reporting under section 197(16) of the Act is not applicable in respect of such subsidiaries.
20.	 As required by clause (xxi) of paragraph 3 of Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (‘the Order’) issued by the 
Central Government of India in terms of section 143(11) of the Act, based on the consideration of the Order, reports 
issued till date by us and by the respective other auditors as mentioned in paragraph 16 above, of companies included 
in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023, and covered under the Act, following are the 
qualifications reported by us and the other auditors in the Order reports of the companies included in the consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023, for which such Order reports have been issued till date:
S 
No
Name
CIN
Holding 
Company / 
subsidiary
Clause number of the 
CARO report which is 
qualified or adverse
1
Suzlon Energy Limited
L40100GJ1995PLC025447
Holding Company
3(xvii)
2
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
U40108GJ2004PLC044409
Subsidiary
3(xvii)
3
Gale Green Urja Limited
U40300GJ2017PLC096251
Subsidiary
3(xvii)
4
Manas Renewables Limited
U40100GJ2015PLC083655
Subsidiary
3(xvii)
5
Sirocco Renewables Limited
U40100GJ2015PLC083663
Subsidiary
3(xvii)
6
Suryoday Renewables Limited
U40108GJ2016PLC092709
Subsidiary
3(xvii)
7
Suyash Renewables Limited
U40108GJ2017PLC096154
Subsidiary
3(xvii)
8
SWE Renewables Limited
U40300GJ2016PLC092737
Subsidiary
3(xvii)
9
SWE Wind Project Services Limited
U40100GJ2016PLC092710
Subsidiary
3(xvii)
10
Vakratunda Renewables Limited
U40106GJ2015PLC083763
Subsidiary
3(xvii)
11
Varadvinayak Renewables Limited
U40200GJ2015PLC083747
Subsidiary
3(xvii)
21.	 As required by section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of the reports of the other 
auditors on separate financial statements and other financial information of the subsidiaries incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purpose of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements;
b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports 
of the other auditors;
c)	
The reports on the accounts of the branch offices of the Holding Company audited under section 143(8) of the 
Act by branch auditors have been sent to us and have been properly dealt with in preparing this report;
d)	
The consolidated financial statements dealt with by this report are in agreement with the relevant books of 
account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements;
e)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with Ind AS specified under section 133 
of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended);
f)	
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company, its subsidiaries 
and taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company, its subsidiaries and the reports of the 
statutory auditors of its subsidiaries, covered under the Act, none of the directors of the Group companies, are 
disqualified as on 31 March 2023 from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164(2) of the Act.
Annual Report 2022-23
280
g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the 
Holding Company, and its subsidiaries covered under the Act, and the operating effectiveness of such controls, 
refer to our separate report in ‘Annexure B’ wherein we have expressed an unmodified opinion; and
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with rule 11 of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of the report of the other 
auditors on separate financial statements and other financial information of the subsidiaries incorporated in 
India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act:
i.	
The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated 
financial position of the Group, its associates and joint ventures as detailed in Note 41 to the consolidated 
financial statements;
ii.	
The Holding Company, its subsidiaries, associate company and joint venture company did not have any 
long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material foreseeable losses 
as at 31 March 2023;
iii.	
There were no amounts which were required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Holding Company, and its subsidiaries covered under the Act, during the year ended 
31 March 2023;
iv.	
a.	
The respective managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries, incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited under the Act, have represented to us and the other auditors of 
such subsidiaries, respectively that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, as disclosed in note 49(e) 
to the consolidated financial statements, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from 
borrowed funds or securities premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Holding Company or 
its subsidiary companies, its associate company or its joint venture company to or in any person or entity, 
including foreign entities (‘the intermediaries’), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Holding Company, or any such 
subsidiary companies, its associate company or its joint venture company (‘the Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
b.	
The respective managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited under the Act, have represented to us and the other auditors 
of such subsidiaries respectively that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the 
note 49(f) to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, no funds have been received by the 
Holding Company or its subsidiary companies, or its associate company or its joint venture company from 
any person or entity, including foreign entities (‘the Funding Parties’), with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Holding Company, or any such subsidiary companies, its 
associate company or its joint venture company shall, whether directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate 
Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
c.	
Based on such audit procedures performed by us and that performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries, 
as considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, nothing has come to our or other 
auditors’ notice that has caused us or the other auditors to believe that the management representations 
under sub-clauses (a) and (b) above contain any material misstatement.
	
v.	
The Holding Company and its subsidiaries have not declared or paid any dividend during the year ended 31 
March 2023;
	
vi.	
Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 requires all companies which use accounting 
software for maintaining their books of account, to use such an accounting software which has a feature of audit 
trail, with effect from the financial year beginning on 1 April 2023 and accordingly, reporting under Rule 11(g) of 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended) is not applicable for the current financial year.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
UDIN: 23101797BGXFAS9934
Place: Pune
Date: 30 May 2023
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
281
List of entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements
Sr. 
No.
Company Name
Relationship
1
AE-Rotor Holding B.V.
Subsidiary
2
Gale Green Urja Limited
Subsidiary
3
Manas Renewables Limited
Subsidiary
4
SE Blades Technology B.V.
Subsidiary
5
SE Drive Technik GmbH
Subsidiary
6
SE Forge Limited
Subsidiary
7
Sirocco Renewables Limited
Subsidiary
8
Suryoday Renewables Limited
Subsidiary
9
Suyash Renewables Limited
Subsidiary
10
Suzlon Energy A/S
Subsidiary
11
Suzlon Energy Australia Pty. Ltd.
Subsidiary
12
Suzlon Energy B.V.
Subsidiary
13
Suzlon Energy Korea Co., Ltd.
Subsidiary
14
Suzlon Energy Ltd, Mauritius
Subsidiary
15
Suzlon Global Services Limited
Subsidiary
16
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
Subsidiary
17
Suzlon Rotor Corporation
Subsidiary
18
Suzlon Wind Energy (Lanka) Pvt Ltd
Subsidiary
19
Suzlon Wind Energy Equipment Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
Subsidiary
20
Suzlon Wind Energy Espana, S.L 
Subsidiary
21
Suzlon Wind Energy Ltd
Subsidiary
22
Suzlon Wind Energy Nicaragua Sociedad Anonima
Subsidiary
23
Suzlon Wind Energy Portugal Energia Elocia Unipessoal Lda
Subsidiary
24
Suzlon Wind Energy Romania SRL
Subsidiary
25
Suzlon Wind Energy South Africa (PTY) Ltd
Subsidiary
26
Suzlon Wind Energy Uruguay SA
Subsidiary
27
Suzlon Wind Enerji Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi
Subsidiary
28
SWE Renewables Limited
Subsidiary
29
SWE Wind Project Services Limited
Subsidiary
30
Tarilo Holding B.V.
Subsidiary
31
Vakratunda Renewables Limited
Subsidiary
32
Valum Holding B.V.
Subsidiary
33
Varadvinayak Renewables Limited
Subsidiary
34
Vignaharta Renewable Energy Limited
Subsidiary
35
Suzlon Energy (Tianjin) Limited
Associate
36
Consortium Suzlon Padgreen Co Ltd
Joint venture
Annexure A
Annual Report 2022-23
282
Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of Suzlon Energy Limited on the 
consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023
Independent Auditor’s Report on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements under Clause 
(i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of Suzlon Energy Limited (‘the Holding 
Company’) and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as ‘the Group’), its 
associate and joint venture as at and for the year ended 31 March 2023, we have audited the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries which are companies 
covered under the Act, as at that date.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for Internal Financial Controls
2.	
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries which are companies covered 
under the Act, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements criteria established by the Holding Company considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (‘the ICAI’). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of the Holding Company’s business, including adherence to the Holding Company’s policies, the 
safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial 
Statements
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of 
the Holding Company and its subsidiaries as aforesaid, based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance 
with the Standards on Auditing issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) prescribed under 
Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements, and the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (‘the Guidance 
Note’) issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements 
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in 
all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements includes obtaining an understanding of such internal financial 
controls, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms 
of their reports referred to in the Other Matter paragraph below is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding Company 
and its subsidiaries as aforesaid.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
6.	
A company's internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements include those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of 
the assets of the Holding Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary 
to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the Holding Company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the Holding Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or 
timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the Holding Company's assets that could have a 
material effect on the financial statements.
Annexure B
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
283
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud 
may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance 
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion and based on the consideration of the reports of the other auditors on internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements of the subsidiaries, the Holding Company and its subsidiaries, which are 
companies covered under the Act, have in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements and such controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2023, based on internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria established by the Holding Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over 
Financial Reporting issued by the ICAI.
Other Matter
9.	
We did not audit the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements insofar as it relates to ten 
subsidiaries, which are companies covered under the Act, whose financial statements reflect total assets of ₹ 79.83 
Crores as at 31 March 2023, total revenues of ₹ Nil and net cash flows amounting to ₹ (0.03) Crores for the year 
ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements. The internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements in so far as it relates to such subsidiaries have been audited by other auditors 
whose reports have been furnished to us by the management and our report on the adequacy and operating 
effectiveness of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements for the Holding Company and 
its subsidiaries, as aforesaid, under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act in so far as it relates to such subsidiaries is based 
solely on the reports of the auditors of such companies. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter with 
respect to our reliance on the work done by and on the reports of the other auditors.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
UDIN: 23101797BGXFAS9934
Place: Pune
Date: 30 May 2023
Annual Report 2022-23
284
Particulars
Notes
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
6 
 696.34 
 773.50 
Right-of-use assets
39 
 82.11 
 133.83 
Capital work-in-progress
8 
 2.57 
 15.21 
Investment properties
9 
 29.21 
 30.86 
Goodwill
7 
 - 
 - 
Other intangible assets
7 
 58.48 
 121.11 
Intangible assets under development
10 
 3.43 
 4.42 
Investments in an associate and joint venture
11.1 
 - 
 - 
Financial assets
	
Other investments
11.2 
 0.03 
 0.03 
	
Trade receivables
12 
 - 
 - 
	
Other financial assets
14 
 433.14 
 264.31 
Deferred tax assets
 0.20 
 17.48 
Other non-current assets
15 
 40.22 
 29.24 
 1,345.73 
 1,389.99 
Current assets
Inventories
16 
 1,827.13 
 2,207.90 
Financial assets
	
Trade receivables
12 
 1,170.44 
 1,376.95 
	
Cash and cash equivalents
17 
 367.31 
 437.38 
	
Bank balance other than above
17 
 - 
 63.05 
	
Loans
13 
 0.61 
 0.96 
	
Other financial assets
14 
 149.05 
 120.50 
Current tax assets, net
 0.54 
 1.11 
Other current assets
15 
 627.10 
 811.26 
 4,142.18 
 5,019.11 
Assets held for sale
18 
 35.47 
 65.76 
Total assets
 5,523.38 
 6,474.86 
Equity and liabilities
Equity 
Equity share capital
19 
 2,454.40 
 1,843.49 
Other equity
20 
 (1,355.26)
 (5,369.22)
Non-controlling interests
21 
 - 
 (36.08)
 1,099.14 
 (3,561.81)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
	
Borrowings
22 
 1,517.27 
 5,592.44 
	
Lease liabilities
39 
 18.06 
 57.54 
	
Other financial liabilities
23 
 19.46 
 21.67 
Provisions
24 
 168.18 
 130.43 
Other non-current liabilities
25 
 0.48 
 0.19 
 1,723.45 
 5,802.27 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
	
Borrowings
22 
 387.61 
 798.12 
	
Lease liabilities
39 
 14.98 
 17.12 
	
Trade payables
26 
 894.64 
 1,840.49 
	
Other financial liabilities
23 
 201.55 
 363.26 
Contract liabilities
 573.04 
 477.25 
Other current liabilities
25 
 58.13 
 81.04 
Provisions
24 
 569.09 
 483.61 
Current tax liabilities, net
 1.75 
 173.51 
 2,700.79 
 4,234.40 
Liabilities directly associated with the assets held for sale
18 
 - 
 - 
Total equity and liabilities
 5,523.38 
 6,474.86 
Summary of significant accounting policies 
2.4
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
In terms of our report attached
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Suzlon Energy Limited
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
J. P. Chalasani
Group Chief Executive Officer
Himanshu Mody
Group Chief Financial Officer
Geetanjali S. Vaidya 
Company Secretary 
Membership No.: A18026 
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Consolidated balance sheet as at March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
285
Particulars
Notes
 March 31, 2023 
 March 31, 2022 
Income
	
Revenue from contracts with customers
27
 5,946.84 
 6,519.95 
	
Other operating income
 23.69 
 61.83 
	
Other income
28
 19.63 
 22.19 
Total income
 5,990.16 
 6,603.97 
Expenses
	
Cost of raw materials, components consumed and services rendered
29
 3,626.76 
 4,091.95 
	
Purchase of stock-in-trade
29
 - 
 - 
	
Changes in inventories of finished goods, semi-finished goods and  
work-in-progress
29
 155.90 
 239.61 
	
Employee benefits expense
30
 609.22 
 545.36 
	
Finance costs
31
 420.76 
 734.52 
	
Depreciation and amortisation expense (including impairment losses)
32
 259.68 
 259.84 
	
Other expenses
33
 746.73 
 815.41 
Total expenses
 5,819.05 
 6,686.69 
Profit/ (loss) before exceptional items and tax
 171.11 
 (82.72)
	
Exceptional items 
34
 (2,720.60)
 (83.12)
Profit/ (loss) before tax
 2,891.71 
 0.40 
Tax expense
35
	
Current tax
 4.61 
 184.07 
	
Deferred tax
 (0.19)
 (17.48)
Profit/ (loss) after tax
 2,887.29 
 (166.19)
	
Share of profit/ (loss) of associate and joint ventures
 - 
 (10.36)
Net profit/ (loss) for the year
 2,887.29 
 (176.55)
Other comprehensive income
36
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss :
Re-measurements of the defined benefit plans
 (9.22)
 3.28 
Income tax effect on the above
 - 
 - 
Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures
 - 
 0.05 
Income tax effect on the above
 - 
 - 
 (9.22)
 3.33 
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss :
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
 (25.66)
 (85.16)
Income tax effect on the above
 - 
 - 
 (25.66)
 (85.16)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 (34.88)
 (81.83)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 2,852.41 
 (258.38)
Profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to 
	
Owners of the Company
 2,849.01 
 (199.59)
	
Non-controlling interest
 38.28 
 23.04 
 2,887.29 
 (176.55)
Other comprehensive income for the year attributable to
	
Owners of the Company
 (34.88)
 (81.83)
	
Non-controlling interest
 - 
 - 
 (34.88)
 (81.83)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
	
Owners of the Company
 2,814.13 
 (281.42)
	
Non-controlling interest
 38.28 
 23.04 
 2,852.41 
 (258.38)
Earnings/ (loss) per equity share (EPS)
37
-	
Basic earnings per share [Nominal value of share ₹ 2 (₹ 2)]
 2.64 
 (0.21)
-	
Diluted earnings per share [Nominal value of share ₹ 2 (₹ 2)]
 2.64 
 (0.21)
Summary of significant accounting policies 
2.4
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
In terms of our report attached
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Suzlon Energy Limited
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
J. P. Chalasani
Group Chief Executive Officer
Himanshu Mody
Group Chief Financial Officer
Geetanjali S. Vaidya 
Company Secretary 
Membership No.: A18026 
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Consolidated statement of profit and loss for the year ended March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2022-23
286
a.	
Equity share capital (refer Note 19)
Equity shares, subscribed and fully, partly paid
No. in Crore
₹ in Crore
At April 1, 2021
 850.80 
 1,701.60 
Movement in share capital
 70.94 
 141.89 
At March 31, 2022
 921.74 
 1,843.49 
Movement in share capital
 325.57 
 610.91 
At March 31, 2023
 1,247.31 
 2,454.40 
b.	
Other equity
Attributable to owners of the parent company
Non-
controlling 
interest
Total
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Equity 
component 
of compound 
financial 
instruments
Equity 
component 
of 
compulsory 
convertible 
debentures
Capital 
reserve
Capital 
reserve on 
consolidation
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Legal and 
statutory 
reserve
General 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Capital  
contribution
Retained 
earning
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrants
Total   
other  
equity
As at April 1, 2021
 12.99 
 41.65 
 49.98 
 23.30 
 0.03 
 15.00 
 1.11  916.89  9,563.40 
 6,273.42 (21,676.92)
 (497.32)
 231.84  (5,044.63)
 (57.68)
(5,102.31)
Profit/ (loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (199.59)
 - 
 - 
 (199.59)
 23.04 
 (176.55)
Other comprehensive income 
(refer Note 36)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.33 
 (85.16)
 - 
 (81.83)
 - 
 (81.83)
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (196.26)
 (85.16)
 - 
 (281.42)
 23.04 
 (258.38)
Conversion of July 2019 FCCB's
 (12.23)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.61 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3.62)
 - 
 (3.62)
Gain on cancellation of July 2019 
FCCB's
 (0.76)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.76)
 - 
 (0.76)
Conversion of August 2032 FCCB's
 - 
 (27.72)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 29.73 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.01 
 - 
 2.01 
Conversion of compulsory 
convertible debentures
 - 
 - 
 (49.98)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9.18 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (40.80)
 - 
 (40.80)
Foreign currency translation on 
non-controlling interests
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1.44)
 (1.44)
As at March 31, 2022
 - 
 13.93 
 - 
 23.30 
 0.03 
 15.00 
 1.11  916.89  9,610.92 
 6,273.42  (21,873.18)
 (582.48)
 231.84  (5,369.22)
 (36.08) (5,405.30)
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
287
Attributable to owners of the parent company
Non-
controlling 
interest
Total
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Equity 
component 
of compound 
financial 
instruments
Equity 
component 
of 
compulsory 
convertible 
debentures
Capital 
reserve
Capital 
reserve on 
consolidation
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Legal and 
statutory 
reserve
General 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Capital  
contribution
Retained 
earning
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrants
Total   
other  
equity
As at April 1, 2022
 - 
 13.93 
 - 
 23.30 
 0.03 
 15.00 
 1.11  916.89  9,610.92 
 6,273.42 
(21,873.18)
 (582.48)
 231.84  (5,369.22)
 (36.08) (5,405.30)
Profit/ (loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,849.01 
 - 
 - 
 2,849.01 
 38.28 
2,887.29 
Other comprehensive income 
(refer Note 36)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (9.22)
 (25.66)
 - 
 (34.88)
 - 
(34.88)
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,839.79 
 (25.66)
 - 
 2,814.13 
 38.28 
 2,852.41 
Reversal of earlier year tax
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 157.09 
 - 
 - 
 157.09 
 - 
 157.09 
Extinguishment of warrants (refer 
Note 4)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 231.84 
 - 
 -  (231.84)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Conversion of August 2032 FCCB's 
(refer Note 19.6)
 - 
 (13.93)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13.93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Premium on conversion of 
optionally convertible debentures 
(refer Note 4)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 402.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 402.86 
 - 
 402.86 
Premium on issue of Rights equity 
shares (refer Note 19.7)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 659.67 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 659.67 
 - 
 659.67 
Share issue expenses
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (19.79)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (19.79)
 - 
 (19.79)
Foreign currency translation on 
non-controlling interests
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2.20)
 (2.20)
As at March 31, 2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 23.30 
 0.03 
 15.00 
 1.11  916.89 10,667.59 
 6,505.26  (18,876.30)
 (608.14)
 -  (1,355.26)
 -  (1,355.26)
Refer Note 20 for nature and purpose of reserves
Summary of significant accounting policies (refer Note 2.4)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
In terms of our report attached
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Suzlon Energy Limited
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
J. P. Chalasani
Group Chief Executive Officer
Himanshu Mody
Group Chief Financial Officer
Geetanjali S. Vaidya 
Company Secretary 
Membership No.: A18026 
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2022-23
288
Particulars
 March 31, 2023 
 March 31, 2022 
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit/ (loss) before tax 
 2,891.71 
 0.40 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense (including impairment losses)
 259.68 
 259.84 
Exceptional items
 (2,720.60)
 (83.12)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment net
 1.38 
 10.53 
Gain on sale of investment
 (0.10)
 - 
Other income
 (29.80)
 (32.88)
Interest expenses and other borrowing cost
 382.97 
 702.57 
Operation, maintenance and warranty expenditure
 95.22 
 155.12 
Liquidated damages expenditure
 34.61 
 47.07 
Performance guarantee expenditure
 103.23 
 71.80 
Bad debts written off
 15.58 
 26.95 
Impairment allowance/ (reversal) 
 (3.23)
 1.24 
Allowance/ (reversal) for doubtful debts and advances, net
 (6.64)
 25.45 
Adjustments for consolidation
 (10.31)
 (99.27)
Capital work-in-progress written off
 - 
 17.49 
Exchange differences, net
 11.11 
 32.27 
Operating profit / (loss) before working capital changes
 1,024.81 
 1,135.46 
Movements in working capital
(Increase) / decrease in financial assets and other assets
 0.59 
 353.48 
(Increase) / decrease in trade receivables
 193.08 
 (230.49)
(Increase) / decrease in inventories
 380.77 
 (48.52)
(Decrease) / increase in other liabilities, financial liabilities and 
provisions
 (1,117.66)
 82.54 
Cash (used in) / generated from operating activities
 481.59 
 1,292.47 
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds)
 (14.93)
 9.43 
Net cash (used in) / generated from operating activities 
A
 466.66 
 1,301.90 
Cash flow from investing activities
Payment for purchase of property, plant and equipments including 
capital work-in-progress and capital advances
 (100.68)
 (76.72)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
 86.48 
 0.90 
Proceeds from sale of stake in subsidiaries and joint ventures
 76.96 
 10.67 
Income from investment properties
 10.17 
 9.93 
Inter-corporate deposits repaid, net
 - 
 20.31 
Interest received
 11.98 
 16.48 
Net cash (used in) / generated from investing activities
B
 84.91 
 (18.43)
Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
289
Particulars
 March 31, 2023 
 March 31, 2022 
Cash flow from financing activities
Repayment of long-term borrowings
 (4,383.53)
 (574.81)
Proceeds from long-term borrowings
 3,029.46 
 - 
Proceeds / (repayment) from short term-borrowings, net
 15.24 
 (148.55)
Proceeds from issuance of share capital including premium, net
 1,079.67 
 - 
Interest and other borrowing cost paid
 (425.33)
 (321.59)
Net cash (used in) / generated from financing activities
C
 (684.49)
 (1,044.95)
Net (decrease)/ increase in cash and cash equivalents
A+B+C
 (132.92)
 238.52 
Less: Cash and bank balances adjusted on sale and liquidation of 
subsidiary
 (0.20)
 (0.59)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year
 500.43 
 262.50 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year
 367.31 
 500.43 
Components of cash and cash equivalents 
 As at 
March 31, 2023 
 As at 
March 31, 2022 
Balance with banks
 366.79 
 499.62 
Cash on hand
 0.52 
 0.81 
Total
 367.31 
 500.43 
Summary of significant accounting policies (refer Note 2.4)
The figures in brackets represent outflows.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
In terms of our report attached
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Suzlon Energy Limited
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
J. P. Chalasani
Group Chief Executive Officer
Himanshu Mody
Group Chief Financial Officer
Geetanjali S. Vaidya 
Company Secretary 
Membership No.: A18026 
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2022-23
290
1.	
Group information
	
Suzlon Energy Limited (the ‘Company’) is a public company domiciled in India and is incorporated under the 
provisions of the Companies Act applicable in India. Its shares are listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and 
the National Stock Exchange (NSE) in India. The registered office of the Company is located at “Suzlon”, 5, Shrimali 
Society, Near Shree Krishna Complex, Navrangpura, Ahmedabad-380009, India. The principal place of business is 
its headquarters located at One Earth, Hadapsar, Pune – 411 028, India.
	
The Company along with its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (together referred to as ‘the Group’) is 
primarily engaged in the business of manufacturing, project execution and operation and maintenance service 
(OMS) of Wind Turbine Generators (‘WTGs’) and sale of related components of various capacities.
	
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 
May 30, 2023.
	
Information about the composition of the Group considered in these consolidated financial statements:
	
1.1	
Details of subsidiaries:
Sl. 
No.
Name of subsidiary
Principal activities
Country of 
incorporation
% of ownership as at  
March 31,
2023
2022
1
AE-Rotor Holding B.V.
Investment
The Netherlands
100.00%
100.00%
2
Gale Green Urja Limited
Independent power 
producer (‘IPP’)
India
70.00%
70.00%
3
Manas Renewables Limited
IPP
India
100.00%
100.00%
4
SE Blades Technology B.V.
Technology
The Netherlands
100.00%
100.00%
5
SE Drive Technik GmbH
Investment
Germany
100.00%
100.00%
6
SE Forge Limited
Manufacturing
India
100.00%
100.00%
7
Sirocco Renewables Limited
IPP
India
100.00%
100.00%
8
Seventus LLC (refer Note 34 a)
Marketing
USA
-
79.90%
9
Suryoday Renewables Limited
Solar
India
100.00%
100.00%
10
Suyash Renewables Limited
IPP
India
70.00%
70.00%
11
Suzlon Energy A/S
Marketing and OMS
Denmark
100.00%
100.00%
12
Suzlon Energy Australia Pty Ltd
Marketing and OMS
Australia
100.00%
100.00%
13
Suzlon Energy B.V.
Investment
The Netherlands
100.00%
100.00%
14
Suzlon Energy Korea Co Ltd
Marketing and OMS
Republic of South 
Korea
100.00%
100.00%
15
Suzlon Energy Limited
Investment
Mauritius
100.00%
100.00%
16
Suzlon Global Services Limited
OMS
India
100.00%
100.00%
17
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
Project execution
India
100.00%
100.00%
18
Suzlon Power Infrastructure Limited 
(refer Note 49 i)
Project execution
India
-
-
19
Suzlon Rotor Corporation
Manufacturing
USA
100.00%
100.00%
20
Suzlon Wind Energy (Lanka) Pvt 
Limited
Marketing and OMS
Sri Lanka
100.00%
100.00%
21
Suzlon Wind Energy BH  
(refer Note 34 c)
Marketing
Bosnia and 
Herzegovina
-
50.00%
Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
All amounts in ₹ Crore, unless otherwise stated
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
291
Sl. 
No.
Name of subsidiary
Principal activities
Country of 
incorporation
% of ownership as at  
March 31,
2023
2022
22
Suzlon Wind Energy Espana, S.L
Marketing and OMS
Spain
100.00%
100.00%
23
Suzlon Wind Energy Equipment 
Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
Marketing
China
100.00%
100.00%
24
Suzlon Wind Energy Limited
Investment
United Kingdom
100.00%
100.00%
25
Suzlon Wind Energy Nicaragua 
Sociedad Anonima
Marketing and OMS
Nicaragua
100.00%
100.00%
26
Suzlon Wind Energy Portugal Energia 
Elocia Unipessoal Lda
Marketing and OMS
Portugal
100.00%
100.00%
27
Suzlon Wind Energy Romania SRL
Marketing and OMS
Romania
100.00%
100.00%
28
Suzlon Wind Energy South Africa 
(PTY) Ltd
Marketing and OMS
South Africa
80.00%
80.00%
29
Suzlon Wind Energy Uruguay SA
Marketing and OMS
Uruguay
100.00%
100.00%
30
Suzlon Wind Enerji Sanayi Ve Ticaret 
Sirketi
Marketing and OMS
Turkey
100.00%
100.00%
31
SWE Renewables Limited
Solar
India
100.00%
100.00%
32
SWE Wind Project Services Limited
Solar
India
100.00%
100.00%
33
Tarilo Holding B.V.
Investment
The Netherlands
100.00%
100.00%
34
Vakratunda Renewables Limited
IPP
India
100.00%
100.00%
35
Valum Holding B.V.#
Investment
The Netherlands
100.00%
100.00%
36
Varadvinayak Renewables Limited
IPP
India
100.00%
100.00%
37
Vignaharta Renewable Energy 
Limited
IPP
India
100.00%
100.00%
	
1.2	 Details of associates:
Sl. 
No.
Name of associate
Principal activities
Country of 
incorporation
% of ownership as at  
March 31,
2023
2022
1
Suzlon Energy (Tianjin) Limited
Manufacturing
China
25.00%
25.00%
2
Aalok Solarfarms Limited ^
Solar
India
25.00%
25.00%
3
Abha Solarfarms Limited ^
Solar
India
25.00%
25.00%
4
Heramba Renewables Limited ^
Solar
India
25.00%
25.00%
5
Shreyas Solarfarms Limited ^
Solar
India
25.00%
25.00%
	
1.3	 Details of joint ventures:
Sl. 
No.
Name of joint ventures
Principal activities
Country of 
incorporation
% of ownership as at  
March 31,
2023
2022
1
Consortium Suzlon Padgreen Co Ltd #
Investment
Mauritius
26.00%
26.00%
2
Suzlon Generators Limited (refer note 34 b)
Manufacturing
India
-
75.00%
3
Vayudoot Solarfarms Limited $
Solar
India
-
51.04%
	
	
$ Divested during the year.
	
	
# Valum Holding B.V. has been liquidated on May 15, 2023. Consequently, the Group lost control on Consortium Suzlon 
Padgreen Co Ltd with effect from May 15, 2023.
	
	
^ The Group has re-classified its investments, who are engaged in the business of generation of electricity through solar 
energy, as “held for sale”.
Annual Report 2022-23
292
	
1.4	 Additional information pursuant to Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, of entities consolidated 
as subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures:
Name of the entity in the Group
March 31, 2023
Net assets (total assets 
less total liabilities)
Share in profit/ (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
Parent
Suzlon Energy Limited
1.29
1,419.39
0.75
2,162.76
0.16
(5.71)
0.76
2,157.05
Subsidiaries
Indian
Gale Green Urja Limited
(0.00)
(0.04)
(0.00)
(0.01)
-
-
(0.00)
(0.01)
Manas Renewables Limited
(0.00)
(0.25)
(0.00)
(0.02)
-
-
(0.00)
(0.02)
SE Forge Limited
0.16
179.82
(0.01)
(35.06)
0.01
(0.32)
(0.01)
(35.38)
Sirocco Renewables Limited
(0.00)
(1.98)
(0.00)
(0.18)
-
-
(0.00)
(0.18)
Suryoday Renewables Limited
0.01
6.03
(0.00)
(0.01)
-
-
(0.00)
(0.01)
Suyash Renewables Limited
(0.00)
(0.04)
(0.00)
(0.01)
-
-
(0.00)
(0.01)
Suzlon Global Services Limited
0.02
26.26
0.28
795.24
0.11
(3.79)
0.28
791.45
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Ltd.
(0.02)
(25.20)
(0.01)
(18.83)
(0.02)
0.59
(0.01)
(18.24)
SWE Renewables Limited
0.02
23.99
-
(0.00)*
-
-
-
(0.00)*
SWE Wind Project Services Ltd.
0.01
11.97
(0.00)
(0.01)
-
-
(0.00)
(0.01)
Vakratunda Renewables Ltd.
(0.00)
(0.13)
(0.00)
(0.01)
-
-
(0.00)
(0.01)
Varadvinayak Renewables Ltd.
(0.00)
(0.11)
(0.00)
(0.01)
-
-
(0.00)
(0.01)
Vignaharta Renewable Energy 
Limited
0.03
37.81
0.00
0.06
-
-
0.00
0.06
Overseas
AE-Rotor Holding B.V.
(5.24)
(5,759.16)
(0.14)
(394.34)
-
-
(0.14)
(394.34)
SE Blades Technology B.V.
(0.02)
(23.79)
(0.00)
(3.77)
-
-
(0.00)
(3.77)
SE Drive Technik GmbH
(1.42)
(1,565.95)
(0.00)
(12.52)
-
-
(0.00)
(12.52)
Seventus LLC
-
-
0.06
186.11
-
-
0.07
186.11
Suzlon Energy A/S
(0.02)
(24.71)
0.02
65.80
-
-
0.02
65.80
Suzlon Energy Australia Pty.Ltd.
(0.00)
(4.15)
(0.01)
(30.82)
-
-
(0.01)
(30.82)
Suzlon Energy B.V.
0.01
6.22
0.01
24.03
-
-
0.01
24.03
Suzlon Energy Korea Co., Ltd.
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Suzlon Energy Ltd., Mauritius
0.00
5.39
(0.00)
(0.22)
-
-
(0.00)
(0.22)
Suzlon Rotor Corporation
0.00
0.06
(0.00)
(3.29)
-
-
(0.00)
(3.29)
Suzlon Wind Energy (Lanka) 
Pvt Ltd
0.01
6.08
0.00
0.37
-
-
0.00
0.37
Suzlon Wind Energy BH (refer 
Note 34 c)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Suzlon Wind Energy Equipment 
Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
0.01
11.85
0.00
0.16
-
-
0.00
0.16
Suzlon Wind Energy Espana S.L
0.04
44.86
0.00
4.57
-
-
0.00
4.57
Suzlon Wind Energy Ltd
(0.00)
(1.78)
(0.00)
(0.09)
-
-
(0.00)
(0.09)
Suzlon Wind Energy Nicaragua 
Sociedad Anonima
(0.02)
(22.47)
(0.00)
(1.30)
-
-
(0.00)
(1.30)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
293
Name of the entity in the Group
March 31, 2023
Net assets (total assets 
less total liabilities)
Share in profit/ (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
Suzlon Wind Energy Portugal 
Energia Elocia Unipessoal Lda
0.00
1.85
0.00
4.73
-
-
0.00
4.73
Suzlon Wind Energy Romania 
SRL
0.01
12.83
0.00
0.54
-
-
0.00
0.54
Suzlon Wind Energy South 
Africa (PTY) Ltd
(0.02)
(25.10)
0.00
2.41
-
-
0.00
2.41
Suzlon Wind Energy Uruguay SA
(0.02)
(18.38)
(0.00)
(0.62)
-
-
(0.00)
(0.62)
Suzlon Wind Enerji Sanayi Ve 
Ticaret Limited Sirketi
0.04
43.46
0.00
11.21
-
-
0.00
11.21
Tarilo Holding B.V.
(0.01)
(8.30)
(0.00)
(7.76)
-
-
(0.00)
(7.76)
Valum Holding B.V.
(0.00)
(0.04)
(0.00)
(0.17)
-
-
(0.00)
(0.17)
Non-controlling interests
-
-
(0.01)
(38.28)
-
-
(0.01)
(38.28)
Joint ventures (refer Note 1.3)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Associates (refer Note 1.2)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Eliminations
6.13
6,742.85
0.06
176.63
0.74
(25.65)
0.05
150.98
Total
1.00
1,099.14
1.00
2,887.29
1.00
(34.88)
1.00
2,852.41
	
	
*Less than ₹ 0.01 Crore
Name of the entity in the Group
March 31, 2022
Net assets (total assets 
less total liabilities)
Share in profit/ (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
Parent
Suzlon Energy Limited
1.09
(3,892.09)
5.17
(912.66)
(0.02)
1.67
3.53
(910.99)
Subsidiaries
Indian
Gale Green Urja Limited
0.00
(0.03)
0.00
(0.01)
-
-
0.00
(0.01)
Manas Renewables Limited
0.00
(0.23)
0.00
(0.02)
-
-
0.00
(0.02)
SE Forge Limited
(0.06)
214.84
(0.05)
9.71
-
0.00*
(0.04)
9.71
Sirocco Renewables Limited
0.00
(1.80)
0.00
(0.15)
-
-
0.00
(0.15)
Suryoday Renewables Limited
(0.00)
6.03
-
0.00*
-
-
-
0.00*
Suyash Renewables Limited
0.00
(0.03)
0.00
(0.01)
-
-
0.00
(0.01)
Suzlon Global Services Limited
0.12
(443.82)
(0.40)
71.21
(0.01)
1.08
(0.28)
72.29
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Ltd.
0.48
(1,700.68)
1.76
(311.23)
(0.01)
0.47
1.20
(310.76)
Suzlon Power Infrastructure Ltd.
0.10
(356.68)
0.37
(65.02)
(0.00)
0.05
0.25
(64.97)
SWE Renewables Limited
(0.01)
23.99
-
0.00*
-
-
-
0.00*
SWE Wind Project Services Ltd.
(0.00)
11.97
-
0.00*
-
-
-
0.00*
Vakratunda Renewables
Limited
0.00
(0.11)
0.00
(0.01)
-
-
0.00
(0.01)
Annual Report 2022-23
294
Name of the entity in the Group
March 31, 2022
Net assets (total assets 
less total liabilities)
Share in profit/ (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
Varadvinayak Renewables Ltd.
0.00
(0.09)
0.00
(0.01)
-
-
0.00
(0.01)
Vignaharta Renewable Energy 
Limited
(0.01)
37.76
0.00
0.05
-
-
0.00
0.05
Overseas
AE-Rotor Holding B.V.
1.41
(5,017.58)
1.48
(261.19)
-
-
1.01
(261.19)
SE Blades Technology B.V.
0.01
(18.57)
0.02
(3.52)
-
-
0.01
(3.52)
SE Drive Technik GmbH
0.41
(1,459.43)
0.04
(7.03)
-
-
0.03
(7.03)
Seventus LLC
0.05
(175.02)
(0.66)
117.08
-
-
(0.45)
117.08
Suzlon Energy A/S
0.03
(89.31)
0.37
(64.75)
-
-
0.25
(64.75)
Suzlon Energy Australia Pty. Ltd.
(0.01)
27.07
(0.09)
15.19
-
-
(0.06)
15.19
Suzlon Energy B.V.
0.00
(16.89)
(0.00)
0.23
-
-
(0.00)
0.23
Suzlon Energy Korea Co., Ltd.
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Suzlon Energy Ltd., Mauritius
(0.00)
5.29
0.01
(2.24)
-
-
0.01
(2.24)
Suzlon Rotor Corporation
(0.00)
3.16
(0.31)
55.53
-
-
(0.21)
55.53
Suzlon Wind Energy (Lanka) 
Pvt Ltd
(0.00)
5.84
(0.00)
0.78
-
-
(0.00)
0.78
Suzlon Wind Energy BH
0.00
(1.80)
0.01
(0.99)
-
-
0.00
(0.99)
Suzlon Wind Energy Corporation
-
-
(0.02)
2.68
-
-
(0.01)
2.68
Suzlon Wind Energy Equipment 
Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
(0.00)
11.64
(0.00)
0.20
-
-
(0.00)
0.20
Suzlon Wind Energy Espana S.L
(0.01)
37.58
(0.03)
4.96
-
-
(0.02)
4.96
Suzlon Wind Energy Ltd
0.00
(1.57)
0.00
(0.10)
-
-
0.00
(0.10)
Suzlon Wind Energy Nicaragua 
Sociedad Anonima
0.01
(19.86)
(0.01)
1.79
-
-
(0.01)
1.79
Suzlon Wind Energy Portugal 
Energia Elocia Unipessoal Lda
0.00
(2.98)
0.11
(18.82)
-
-
0.07
(18.82)
Suzlon Wind Energy Romania 
SRL
(0.00)
11.54
(0.02)
3.06
-
-
(0.01)
3.06
Suzlon Wind Energy South 
Africa (PTY) Ltd
0.01
(30.88)
0.01
(1.55)
-
-
0.01
(1.55)
Suzlon Wind Energy Uruguay SA
0.00
(16.32)
(0.00)
0.56
-
-
(0.00)
0.56
Suzlon Wind Enerji Sanayi Ve 
Ticaret Limited Sirketi
(0.01)
39.60
(0.14)
24.63
-
-
(0.10)
24.63
Tarilo Holding B.V.
0.00
(0.02)
(0.42)
74.72
-
-
(0.29)
74.72
Valum Holding B.V.
(0.00)
0.13
0.01
(2.34)
-
-
0.01
(2.34)
Non-controlling interests
0.01
(36.08)
0.13
(23.04)
-
-
0.09
(23.04)
Joint ventures (refer Note 1.3)
Suzlon Generators Limited 
(refer note 34 b)
-
-
0.06
(10.36)
(0.00)
0.05
0.04
(10.31)
Associates (refer Note 1.2)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Eliminations
(2.61)
9,283.62
(6.38)
1,126.12
1.04
(85.15)
(4.03)
1,040.97
Total
1.00
(3,561.81)
1.00
(176.55)
1.00
(81.83)
1.00
(258.38)
	
	
* Less than ₹ 0.01 Crore
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
295
2.	
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies
	
2.1	 Basis of preparation
	
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from 
time to time) and presentation requirements of Division II of Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS 
compliant Schedule III), as applicable to the consolidated financial statements.
	
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative 
financial instruments and certain financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value [refer accounting policy 
regarding financial instruments – 2.4 (s)] which have been measured at fair value.
	
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (₹) and all values are rounded to the 
nearest Crore (` 0,000,000) up to two decimals, except when otherwise indicated.
	
The Group has prepared the financial statements on the basis that it will continue to operate as a going 
concern.
	
2.2	 Basis of consolidation
	
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Suzlon Energy Limited (‘SEL’ or ‘the 
Company’) and its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (together referred to as ‘Suzlon’ or ‘the Group’). 
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Specifically, the Group 
controls an investee if and only if the Group has:
•	
Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities 
of the investee),
•	
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and
•	
The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
	
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control. To support this presumption 
and when the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers 
all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including:
•	
The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee
•	
Rights arising from other contractual arrangements
•	
The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights
•	
The size of the Group’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of the holdings of the 
other voting rights holders.
	
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there 
are changes to one or more of the three elements of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the 
Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, 
liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the 
consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to 
control the subsidiary.
	
The consolidated financial statements are prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and 
other events in similar circumstances.
	
If a member of the Group uses accounting policies other than those adopted in the consolidated financial 
statements for like transactions and events in similar circumstances, appropriate adjustments are made to that 
Group member’s financial statements in preparing the consolidated financial statements to ensure conformity 
with the Group’s accounting policies.
	
The financial statements of all entities used for the purpose of consolidation are drawn up to same reporting 
date as that of the parent company, i.e., year ended on March 31. When the end of the reporting period of the 
parent is different from that of a subsidiary, the subsidiary prepares, for consolidation purposes, additional 
financial information as of the same date as the financial statements of the parent to enable the parent to 
consolidate the financial information of the subsidiary, unless it is impracticable to do so.
Annual Report 2022-23
296
	
	
Consolidation procedure:
•	
Combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows of the parent with those 
of its subsidiaries. For this purpose, income and expenses of the subsidiary are based on the amounts of 
the assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements at the acquisition date.
•	
Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the parent’s investment in each subsidiary and the parent’s 
portion of equity of each subsidiary. Business combinations policy explains how to account for any related 
goodwill.
•	
Eliminate in full intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to 
transactions between entities of the Group (profits or losses resulting from intragroup transactions that 
are recognised in assets, such as inventory and property, plant and equipment, are eliminated in full). 
Intragroup losses may indicate an impairment that requires recognition in the consolidated financial 
statements. Ind AS12 Income Taxes applies to temporary differences that arise from the elimination of 
profits and losses resulting from intragroup transactions.
	
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of 
the parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests 
having a deficit balance.
	
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting 
policies into line with the Group’s accounting policies. All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, 
expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on 
consolidation.
	
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity 
transaction. If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it:
•	
Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary
•	
Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interests
•	
Derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity
•	
Recognises the fair value of the consideration received
•	
Recognises the fair value of any investment retained
•	
Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss
•	
Reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised in OCI to profit or loss or retained 
earnings, as appropriate, as would be required if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or 
liabilities.
	
2.3	 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
	
Few amendments apply for the first time for the year ended March 31, 2023, but do not have an impact on 
the financial statements of the Group. The Group intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they 
become effective.
	
2.4	 Summary of significant accounting policies
	
	
a.	
Business combinations and goodwill
	
	
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is 
measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and 
the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree. For each business combination, the Group 
elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate 
share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
	
At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at 
their acquisition date fair values. For this purpose, the liabilities assumed include contingent liabilities 
representing present obligation and they are measured at their acquisition fair values irrespective of the 
fact that outflow of resources embodying economic benefits is not probable. However, the following 
assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination are measured at the basis indicated below:
•	
Deferred tax assets or liabilities, and the assets or liabilities related to employee benefit arrangements 
are recognised and measured in accordance with Ind AS 12 Income Tax and Ind AS 19 Employee 
Benefits respectively.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
297
•	
Assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with Ind AS 105 Non-
current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that 
standard.
	
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate 
classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and 
pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in 
host contracts by the acquiree. If the business combination is achieved in stages, any previously held 
equity interest is re-measured at its acquisition date fair value and any resulting gain or loss is recognised 
in profit or loss or OCI, as appropriate.
	
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer is recognised at fair value at the acquisition 
date. Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the 
scope of Ind AS 109 Financial Instruments, is measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised 
in profit or loss. If the contingent consideration is not within the scope of Ind AS 109, it is measured in 
accordance with the appropriate Ind AS. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-
measured at subsequent reporting dates and subsequent its settlement is accounted for within equity.
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred 
and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, and any previous interest held, over the net 
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess 
of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether it has correctly identified all 
of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure the 
amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date. If the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair 
value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised 
in OCI and accumulated in equity as capital reserve. However, if there is no clear evidence of bargain 
purchase, the entity recognises the gain directly in equity as capital reserve, without routing the same 
through OCI.
	
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, 
allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, 
irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
	
A cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more 
frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata based on the 
carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
	
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is 
disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of 
the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is 
measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating 
unit retained.
	
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which 
the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is 
incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted through goodwill during the measurement period, 
or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and 
circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts 
recognised at that date. These adjustments are called as measurement period adjustments. The 
measurement period does not exceed one year from the acquisition date.
	
	
b.	
Investment in associates and joint ventures
	
An associate is an entity over which the Suzlon Group has significant influence. Significant influence is 
the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control 
or joint control over those policies.
	
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement 
have rights to the net assets of the joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control 
of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous 
consent of the parties sharing control.
Annual Report 2022-23
298
	
The considerations made in determining whether significant influence or joint control are similar to those 
necessary to determine control over the subsidiaries.
	
The Group’s investments in its associate and joint venture are accounted for using the equity method. 
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost. 
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets 
of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate or joint 
venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment individually.
	
The statement of profit and loss reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations of the associate or 
joint venture. Any change in OCI of those investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, 
when there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, the 
Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
	
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate or joint 
venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture.
	
If an entity’s share of losses of an associate or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the 
associate or joint venture (which includes any long term interest that, in substance, form part of the 
Group’s net investment in the associate or joint venture), the entity discontinues recognising its share of 
further losses. Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or 
constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
	
If the associate or joint venture subsequently reports profits, the entity resumes recognising its share of 
those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised. The aggregate of 
the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate and a joint venture is shown on the face of the statement 
of profit and loss.
	
The financial statements of the associate or joint venture are prepared for the same reporting period as 
the Group. When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of 
the Group.
	
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an 
impairment loss on its investment in its associate or joint venture. At each reporting date, the Group 
determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the associate or joint venture is 
impaired. If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference 
between the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and its carrying value, and then 
recognises the loss as ‘Share of profit of an associate and a joint venture’ in the statement of profit and 
loss.
	
	
c.	
Current versus non-current classification
	
	
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current/ non-current classification. 
An asset is treated as current when it is:
	
•	
Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal operating cycle,
	
•	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading,
	
•	
Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting period or
	
•	
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at 
least twelve months after the reporting period.
	
	
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
	
	
A liability is current when:
	
	
	
•	
It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle
	
•	
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading
	
•	
It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period, or
	
•	
There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after 
the reporting period.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
299
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. The Group classifies 
all other liabilities as non-current.
	
The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in 
cash and cash equivalents. The Group has identified twelve months as its operating cycle.
	
	
d.	
Foreign currencies
	
	
	
The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (₹), which is also the parent 
company’s functional currency.
	
For each entity the Group determines the functional currency and items included in the financial statements 
are measured using that functional currency.
	
The Group uses line by line consolidation and on disposal of a foreign operation the gain or loss that is 
reclassified to profit or loss reflects the amount that arises from using this method.
	
	
	
Transactions and balances
	
Foreign currency transactions are recorded in the reporting currency, by applying to the foreign currency 
amount the exchange rate between the reporting currency and the foreign currency at the date of the 
transaction.
	
Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated using the exchange rate prevailing at the reporting 
date Exchange differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair 
value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is 
determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value is treated 
in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item (i.e., translation 
differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income (‘OCI’) or 
profit or loss are also recognised in OCI or profit or loss, respectively).
	
	
	
Group companies
	
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Indian Rupees (₹) at 
the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date and their statements of profit or loss are translated 
at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. For practical reasons, the Group uses an 
average rate to translate income and expense items, if the average rate approximates the exchange rates 
at the dates of the transactions. The exchange differences arising on translation for consolidation are 
recognised in OCI. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of OCI relating to that particular 
foreign operation is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
e.	
Fair value measurement
	
	
The Group measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based 
on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
	
•	
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
	
•	
In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability
	
	
	
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would 
use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best 
interest.
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
Annual Report 2022-23
300
	
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient 
data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising 
the use of unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are 
categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
	
•	
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
	
•	
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable.
	
•	
Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is unobservable.
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group 
determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of 
each reporting period.
	
The Group management determines the policies and procedures for recurring and non-recurring fair 
value measurement. Involvement of external valuers is decided upon annually by management. The 
management decides after discussion with external valuers about valuation technique and inputs to use 
for each case.
	
At each reporting date, the Group’s management analyses the movements in the values of assets and 
liabilities which are required to be re-measured or re-assessed as per the Group’s accounting policies. For 
this analysis, the Group verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information 
in the valuation computation to contracts and other relevant documents.
	
The Group, in conjunction with the Group’s external valuers, also compares the change in the fair value of 
each asset and liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change is reasonable.
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the 
basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy 
as explained above.
	
This note summarises accounting policy for fair value. Other fair value related disclosures are given in the 
relevant notes.
	
•	
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy [refer Note 45]
	
•	
Investment properties [refer Note 2.4 (k)]
	
•	
Financial instruments (including those carried at amortised cost) [refer Note 2.4 (s)]
	
	
f.	
Revenue from contracts with customers
	
	
	
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised at the point in time when control of the goods or 
services is transferred to the customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group 
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
	
	
	
Sale of goods
	
	
	
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised in the statement of profit and loss at the point in time when 
control of the goods is transferred to the buyer as per the terms of the respective sales order, generally 
on delivery of the goods. Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance obligation is measured at the 
amount of transaction price (net of variable consideration) allocated to that performance obligation. The 
transaction price of goods sold and services rendered is net of variable consideration on account of 
various discounts and schemes offered by the Group as part of the contract.
	
The Group considers whether there are other promises in the contract that are separate performance 
obligations to which a portion of the transaction price needs to be allocated (e.g., warranties,). In 
determining the transaction price for the sale of equipment, the Group considers the effects of variable 
consideration and consideration payable to the customer (if any).
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
301
	
	
i.	
Variable consideration
	
If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount, the Group estimates the amount of 
consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the goods to the customer. The 
contracts for sale of equipment provide customers with a right for penalty in case of delayed delivery or 
commissioning and in some contracts compensation for performance shortfall expected in future over the 
life of the guarantee assured.
	
	
ii.	
Significant financing component
	
Generally, the Group receives short-term advances from its customers. Using the practical expedient in 
Ind AS 115, the Group does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant 
financing component if it expects, at contract inception, that the period between the transfer of the 
promised good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be 
one year or less.
	
	
iii.	
Cost to obtain a contract
	
The Group pays sales commission for contracts obtained. The Group has elected to apply the optional 
practical expedient for costs to obtain a contract which allows the Group to immediately expense sales 
commissions because the amortisation period that the Group otherwise would have used is one year or 
less.
	
	
	
Warranty obligations
	
	
The Group typically provides warranties for operations and maintenance that existed at the time of sale. 
These assurance-type warranties are accounted for under Ind AS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and 
Contingent Assets. Refer to the accounting policy on warranty provisions in section (q) Provisions.
	
	
The Group provides standard period warranty for all contracts and extended warranty beyond standard 
in few contracts at the time of sale. These service-type warranties are bundled together with the sale of 
equipment. Contracts for bundled sales of goods and a service-type warranty comprise two performance 
obligations because the promises to transfer the equipment and to provide the service-type warranty are 
capable of being distinct. Using the relative stand-alone selling price method, a portion of the transaction 
price is allocated to the service-type warranty and recognised as a contract liability. Revenue is recognised 
over the period in which the service-type warranty is provided based on the time elapsed.
	
	
	
Operation and maintenance income (‘OMS’)
	
	
Revenues from operation and maintenance contracts are recognised over the period of the contract 
and measured using output method because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the 
benefits provided to them.
	
	
	
Project execution income
	
	
Revenue from services relating to project execution is recognised on completion of respective activities 
identified as per terms of the sales order, net of taxes charged.
	
	
	
Power evacuation infrastructure facilities
	
	
Revenue from power evacuation infrastructure facilities is recognised upon commissioning and electrical 
installation of the WTG to the said facilities followed by approval for commissioning of WTG from the 
concerned authorities.
	
	
	
Land revenue
	
	
Revenue from land lease activity is recognised upon the transfer of leasehold rights to the customers. 
Revenue from sale of land / right to sale land is recognised at the point in time when control of asset is 
transferred to the customer as per the terms of the respective sales order. Revenue from land development 
is recognised upon rendering of the service as per the terms of the respective sales order.
	
	
	
Sale of services
	
	
Revenue from sale of services is recognised in the statement of profit and loss as and when the services 
are rendered.
	
	
	
Power generation
	
	
Income from power generation is recognised on sale of unit generated and invoiced to respective state 
electricity board.
Annual Report 2022-23
302
	
	
Contract balances
	
	
i.	
Contract assets
	
A contract asset is the right to consideration in exchange for goods or services transferred to the 
customer. If the Group performs by transferring goods or services to a customer before the customer 
pays consideration or before payment is due, a contract asset is recognised for the earned consideration 
that is conditional.
	
	
ii.	
Trade receivables
	
A receivable represents the Group’s right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional (i.e., only the 
passage of time is required before payment of the consideration is due). Refer to accounting policies of 
financial assets in section (s) Financial instruments – initial recognition and subsequent measurement.
	
	
iii.	
Contract liabilities
	
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the Group 
has received consideration (or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer. If a customer 
pays consideration before the Group transfers goods or services to the customer, a contract liability is 
recognised when the payment is made or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). Contract liabilities are 
recognised as revenue when the Group performs under the contract.
	
	
Interest income
	
For all financial assets measured at amortised cost, interest income is recorded using the effective interest 
rate (EIR). EIR is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts over the 
expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the gross carrying amount 
of the financial asset or to the amortised cost of a financial liability. When calculating the effective interest 
rate, the Group estimates the expected cash flows by considering all the contractual terms of the financial 
instrument (for example, prepayment, extension, call and similar options) but does not consider the expected 
credit losses. Interest income is included in other income in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
g.	
Government grants and subsidies
	
Grants and subsidies from the government are recognised when there is reasonable assurance that (i) the 
Group will comply with the conditions attached to them, and (ii) the grant/ subsidy will be received.
	
When the grant or subsidy relates to revenue, it is recognised as income on a systematic basis in the 
statement of profit and loss over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs, which they 
are intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to an asset, it is recognised as deferred income and 
released to income in equal amounts over the expected useful life of the related asset.
	
When the Group receives grants of non-monetary assets, the asset and the grant are recorded at fair 
value amounts and released to profit or loss over the expected useful life in a pattern of consumption of 
the benefit of the underlying asset i.e. by equal annual instalments. When loans or similar assistance are 
provided by governments or related institutions, with an interest rate below the current applicable market 
rate, the effect of this favourable interest is regarded as a government grant. The loan or assistance is 
initially recognised and measured at fair value and the government grant is measured as the difference 
between the initial carrying value of the loan and the proceeds received. The loan is subsequently 
measured as per the accounting policy applicable to financial liabilities.
	
	
h.	
Taxes
	
	
	
Current income tax
	
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or 
paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are 
enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date.
	
Current income tax relating to items recognised outside statement of profit and loss is recognised either in 
other comprehensive income or in equity. Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying 
transaction either in OCI or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates the positions taken in 
the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation 
and establishes provisions where appropriate.
	
	
	
Deferred tax
	
	
	
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet method on temporary differences between the tax bases 
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
303
	
	
	
Deferred tax liabilities (‘DTL’) are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except:
	
•	
When the DTL arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction 
that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting 
profit nor taxable profit or loss.
	
•	
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates 
and interests in joint ventures, when the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be 
controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
	
	
Deferred tax assets (‘DTA’) are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward 
of unused tax credits and any unused tax losses. DTA are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry 
forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except:
	
•	
When the DTA relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an 
asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, 
affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
	
•	
In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint ventures, DTA are recognised only to the extent that it is probable 
that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be 
available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
	
The carrying amount of DTA is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the DTA to be utilised. 
Unrecognised DTA are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has 
become probable that future taxable profits will allow the DTA to be recovered.
	
DTA and DTL are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the reporting date. DTA and DTL are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current 
tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the 
same taxation authority.
	
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised either in OCI or in equity.
	
	
i.	
Non-current assets held for sale
	
Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising of assets and liabilities are classified as ‘held for 
sale’ if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use and a sale is considered high probable to be concluded within 12 months from the balance 
sheet date.
	
Such non-current assets or disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell. Non-current assets including those that are part of a disposal group held for sale 
are not depreciated or amortised while they are classified as held for sale.
	
	
j.	
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’)
	
PPE are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment loss, if any. Such 
cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term 
construction projects if the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of plant and equipment are 
required to be replaced at intervals, the Group depreciates them separately based on their specific useful 
lives.
	
Capital work-in-progress comprises of the cost of PPE that are not yet ready for their intended use as at 
the balance sheet date.
	
Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant 
and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair and maintenance 
costs are recognised in the statement of profit and loss when they are incurred.
	
Depreciation is calculated on the written down value method (‘WDV’) based on the useful lives and residual 
values estimated by the management in accordance with Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. The 
identified components are depreciated separately over their useful lives; the remaining components are 
depreciated over the life of the principal PPE.
Annual Report 2022-23
304
	
The Group, based on technical assessment made by technical expert and management estimate, depreciates certain 
items over estimated useful lives which are different from the useful life prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies 
Act, 2013. The management believes that these estimated useful lives are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the 
period over which the assets are likely to be used.
	
Gains or losses arising from de-recognition of PPE are measured as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset on the date of disposal and are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss when the asset is derecognised.
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of PPE are reviewed at each financial year 
end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
	
	
k.	
Investment properties
	
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment loss, if any.
	
The cost includes the cost of replacing parts and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects 
if the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of the investment property are required to be 
replaced at intervals, the Group depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives. All other 
repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the statement of profit and loss as incurred.
	
The Group depreciates building component of investment property over 58 years from the date of original 
purchase / date of capitalisation. Though the Group measures investment properties using cost based 
measurement, the fair value of investment properties is disclosed in the notes.
	
Investment properties are derecognised either when they have been disposed of or when they are 
permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from their disposal. The 
difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is recognised in 
statement of profit and loss in the period of de-recognition.
	
	
l.	
Goodwill and other intangible assets
	
	
	
Goodwill
	
Goodwill represents the excess of consideration transferred, together with the amount of non-controlling 
interest in the acquiree, over the fair value of the Group’s share of identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill 
is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
	
	
	
Other intangible assets
	
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible 
assets acquired in a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. Following initial 
recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are 
not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in statement of profit and loss in the year in which 
the expenditure is incurred.
	
	
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the useful economic life which generally does 
not exceed five years and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible 
asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method are reviewed at least at the 
end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption 
of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or 
method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
	
	
Gains or losses arising from de-recognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between 
the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss when the asset is derecognised.
	
	
	
Research and development costs
	
	
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditures on an individual project are 
recognised as an intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate:
	
•	
The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use 
or sale;
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
305
	
•	
Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset,
	
•	
How the asset will generate future economic benefits,
	
•	
The availability of resources to complete the asset,
	
•	
The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
	
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less 
any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when 
development is complete and the asset is available for use. It is amortised on a straight line basis over the 
period of expected future benefit from the related project, i.e., the estimated useful life. Amortisation is 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss. During the period of development, the asset is tested for 
impairment annually.
	
	
m.	 Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset 
that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised 
as part of the cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. 
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing 
of funds. Borrowing cost also includes exchange differences to the extent regarded as an adjustment to 
the borrowing costs.
	
	
n.	
Leases
	
The Group assesses whether a contract contains a lease, at inception of a contract. A contract is, or 
contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of 
time in exchange for consideration.
	
	
	
Group as a lessee
	
The Group applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for short-term 
leases and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments and 
right-of-use assets representing the right to use the underlying assets.
	
	
i.	
Right-of-use assets (ROU assets)
	
The Group’s lease asset classes primarily consist of leases for land and buildings. The Group recognises 
ROU assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying asset is available for use). 
ROU assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted 
for any re-measurement of lease liabilities. The cost of ROU assets includes the amount of lease liabilities 
recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the commencement 
date less any lease incentives received. ROU assets are depreciated from the commencement date on 
a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and useful life of the underlying asset. The ROU 
assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to the accounting policies in section (p) Impairment of non-
financial assets.
	
	
ii.	
Lease liabilities
	
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognises lease liabilities measured at the present 
value of lease payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments less 
any lease incentives receivable. In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Group uses its 
borrowing rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using the incremental borrowing rates in 
the country of domicile of these leases at the lease commencement date.
	
After the commencement date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of 
interest and reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is 
remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term or a change in the lease payments.
	
	
iii.	
Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
	
The Group applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leased asset (i.e., those 
leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement date and do not contain a 
purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption to leases that are 
considered to be low value. For the short-term and low-value leases, the Group recognizes the lease 
payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Annual Report 2022-23
306
	
	
	
Group as a lessor
	
	
Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the 
asset is classified as operating lease.
	
	
Assets subject to operating leases other than land and building are included in PPE. Lease income on an 
operating lease is recognised in the statement of profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the lease 
term. Costs, including depreciation, are recognised as an expense in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
o.	
Inventories
	
Inventories of raw materials including stores and spares and consumables, packing materials, semi-
finished goods, components, work-in-progress, project work-in-progress and finished goods are valued 
at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value. Cost is determined on weighted average basis.
	
The cost of work-in-progress, project work-in-progress, semi-finished goods and finished goods includes 
the cost of material, labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads.
	
Stock of land and land lease rights is valued at lower of cost and estimated net realisable value. Cost is 
determined on weighted average basis.
	
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs 
of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
	
	
p.	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. 
If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates 
the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-
generating unit’s (‘CGU’) net selling price and its value in use. The recoverable amount is determined 
for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of 
those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds 
its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset. In determining net selling price, recent market transactions are taken into account, 
if available. If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
	
The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are 
prepared separately for each of the Group’s CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated. These 
budgets and forecast calculations generally cover a period of five years. For longer periods, a long-term 
growth rate is calculated and applied to project future cash flows after the fifth year.
	
To estimate cash flow projections beyond periods covered by the most recent budgets/ forecasts, 
the Group extrapolates cash flow projections in the budget using a steady or declining growth rate for 
subsequent years, unless an increasing rate can be justified. In any case, this growth rate does not exceed 
the long-term average growth rate for the products, industries, or country or countries in which the entity 
operates, or for the market in which the asset is used.
	
After impairment, depreciation is provided on the revised carrying amount of the asset over its remaining 
useful life. Impairment losses of continuing operations, including impairment on inventories, are recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss, except for properties previously revalued with the revaluation surplus 
taken to OCI. For such properties, the impairment is recognised in OCI up to the amount of any previous 
revaluation surplus.
	
The impairment loss recognised in prior accounting periods is reversed if there has been a change in 
estimates of recoverable amount. The carrying value after reversal is not increased beyond the carrying 
value that would have prevailed by charging usual depreciation if there was no impairment.
	
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually as at March 
31. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU (or group of 
CGUs) to which the goodwill relates. When the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying 
amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in 
future periods.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
307
	
	
q.	
Provisions
	
	
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of 
a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to 
settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
	
	
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate 
that reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in 
the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
	
	
r.	
Employee benefits
	
	
	
i.	
Short-term employee benefits:
	
	
Employee benefits such as short-term compensated absences, bonus, ex-gratia and performance 
linked rewards which are expected to be settled wholly before twelve months after the end of annual 
reporting period are classified as short-term employee benefits and are expensed in the period in 
which the employee renders the services entitling them to such benefits.
	
	
	
ii.	
Post-employment benefits:
	
	
	
	
A.	
Defined contribution schemes:
	
	
	
	
The Group’s provides defined contribution schemes such as statutory provident fund, employee 
state insurance, voluntary superannuation and the pension plan. The Group has no obligation 
other than the contribution payable to the funds which is recognised as an expense, when an 
employee renders the related service. If the contribution payable to the scheme for service 
received before the balance sheet date exceeds the contribution already paid, the deficit 
payable to the scheme is recognised as a liability after deducting the contribution already paid. 
If the contribution already paid exceeds the contribution due for services received before the 
balance sheet date, then excess is recognized as an asset to the extent that the pre-payment 
will lead to, for example, a reduction in future payment or a cash refund.
	
	
	
	
B.	
Defined benefit plan:
	
	
	
	
The employee’s gratuity fund scheme managed by board of trustees established by the Group, 
and the Group pension plan represent defined benefit plan. Gratuity is provided for on the basis 
of actuarial valuation, using projected unit credit method as at each balance sheet date.
	
	
	
	
Re-measurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding 
amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets 
(excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability), are recognised 
immediately in the balance sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through 
OCI in the period in which they occur. Re-measurements are not reclassified to statement of profit 
and loss in subsequent periods. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net 
defined benefit liability or asset. The Group recognised the following changes in defined benefit 
obligation as an expense in the statement of profit and loss:
	
	
•	
Service cost comprising of current service cost, past service cost gains and loss on 
entitlements and non-routine settlement.
	
	
•	
Net interest expenses or income.
	
	
	
	
Gains or losses on settlement of any defined benefit plan are recognised when the settlement 
occurs. In case of funded plans, the fair value of the plan assets is reduced from the gross 
obligation under the defined benefit plans to recognise the obligation on a net basis.
	
	
	
iii.	
Long-term employee benefits:
	
	
The Group provides long-term benefits such as Retention bonus (i.e long service award) and 
compensated absences. Retention bonus is awarded to certain cadre of employees on completion 
of specific years of service. The obligation recognised in respect of these long-term benefits is 
measured at present value of estimated future cash flows expected to be made by the Group and is 
recognised on the basis of actuarial valuation, using projected unit credit method as at each balance 
sheet date. As the Group does not have an unconditional right to defer its settlement for 12 months 
after the reporting date, the entire leave is presented as a current liability in the balance sheet and 
expenses recognised in statement of profit and loss account. Long-term compensated balances and 
retention bonus are unfunded.
Annual Report 2022-23
308
	
	
s.	
Financial instruments
	
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity.
	
	
	
Financial assets
	
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
With the exception of trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which 
the Group has applied the practical expedient, on initial recognition, a financial asset is recognised at fair 
value, in case of financial assets which are recognised at fair value through profit or loss, its transaction 
cost is recognised in the statement of profit and loss. In other cases, the transaction cost is attributed to 
the acquisition value of the financial asset.
	
	
Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Group has 
applied the practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under Ind AS 115. Refer 
to the accounting policies in section (f) Revenue from contracts with customers.
	
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in four categories:
	
•	
Debt instruments at amortised cost
	
•	
Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
	
•	
Debt instruments, derivatives and equity instruments at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
•	
Equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
	
	
	
Debt instruments at amortised cost
	
	
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised cost if both the following conditions are met:
a.	
The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual 
cash flows, and
b.	
Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.
	
This category is the most relevant to the Group. After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost 
is calculated by considering any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral 
part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in other income in the statement of profit and loss. The 
losses arising from impairment are recognised in the statement of profit and loss. This category generally 
applies to trade and other receivables.
	
	
	
Debt instrument at FVTOCI
	
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is classified as at the FVTOCI if both of the following criteria are met:
a.	
The objective of the business model is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling 
the financial assets, and
	
b.	
The asset’s contractual cash flows represent SPPI.
	
Debt instruments included within the FVTOCI category are measured initially as well as at each 
reporting date at fair value. Fair value movements are recognised in OCI. However, the group 
recognizes interest income, impairment losses & reversals and foreign exchange gain or loss in 
the statement of profit and loss. On derecognition of the asset, cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognised in OCI is reclassified from the equity to statement of profit and loss. Interest earned 
whilst holding FVTOCI debt instrument is reported as interest income using the EIR method. The 
Group has not designated any financial asset as at FVTOCI.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
309
	
	
	
Debt instrument at FVTPL
	
FVTPL is a residual category for debt instruments. Any debt instrument, which does not meet the criteria 
for categorization as at amortized cost or as FVTOCI, is classified as at FVTPL.
	
In addition, the Group may elect to designate a debt instrument, which otherwise meets amortized cost 
or FVTOCI criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates 
a measurement or recognition inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’).
	
Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
	
Equity investments
	
All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 are initially measured at fair value. Equity instruments which 
are held for trading and contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer in a business combination to 
which Ind AS103 applies are classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Group makes an 
irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive income subsequent changes in the fair value.
	
The Group makes such election on an instrument by- instrument basis. The classification is made on initial 
recognition and is irrevocable.
	
If the Group decides to classify an equity instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the 
instrument, excluding dividends, are recognised in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from 
OCI to statement of profit and loss, even on sale of investment. However, the Group may transfer the 
cumulative gain or loss within equity.
	
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
	
De-recognition
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial 
assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. removed from the Group’s consolidated balance sheet) when:
	
•	
The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired, or
•	
The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation 
to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ 
arrangement; and either:
	
a.	
the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or
	
b.	
the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset but has transferred control of the asset.
	
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-
through arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership. 
When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor 
transferred control of the asset, the Group continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent 
of the Group’s continuing involvement. In that case, the Group also recognises an associated liability. 
The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and 
obligations that the Group has retained.
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the 
lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the 
Group could be required to repay.
	
	
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Group applies expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement and 
recognition of impairment loss on the following financial assets and credit risk exposure:
a.	
Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt 
securities, deposits, trade receivables and bank balance;
b.	
Financial assets that are debt instruments and are measured as at FVTOCI;
Annual Report 2022-23
310
c.	
Trade receivables or any contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset that result from 
transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 115 Revenue from contracts with customers;
d.	
Loan commitments which are not measured as at FVTPL;
e.	
Financial guarantee contracts which are not measured as at FVTPL
	
	
The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables 
or contract assets. The application of simplified approach does not require the Group to track changes in 
credit risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, 
right from its initial recognition.
	
	
For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Group determines that 
whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has 
not increased significantly, 12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk 
has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument 
improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the 
entity reverts to recognising impairment loss allowance based on 12-month ECL.
	
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected 
life of a financial instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default 
events that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date.
	
ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Group in accordance with the 
contract and all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at 
the original EIR. When estimating the cash flows, an entity is required to consider:
	
•	
All contractual terms of the financial instrument (including prepayment, extension, call and similar 
options) over the expected life of the financial instrument. However, in rare cases when the expected 
life of the financial instrument cannot be estimated reliably, then the entity is required to use the 
remaining contractual term of the financial instrument.
	
•	
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by 
appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Estimated irrecoverable amounts are 
based on the ageing of the receivables balance and historical experience. Individual trade receivables 
are written off when management deems them not to be collectible.
	
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognised during the period is recognised as income/ 
expense in the statement of profit and loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ 
in the statement of profit and loss. The balance sheet presentation for various financial instruments is 
described below:
	
•	
Financial assets measured as at amortised cost and contractual revenue receivables: ECL is 
presented as an allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the balance 
sheet. The allowance reduces the net carrying amount. Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the 
Group does not reduce impairment allowance from the gross carrying amount.
	
•	
Loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts: ECL is presented as a provision in the balance 
sheet, i.e. as a liability.
	
•	
Debt instruments measured at FVTOCI: Since financial assets are already reflected at fair value, 
impairment allowance is not further reduced from its value. Rather, ECL amount is presented as 
‘accumulated impairment amount’ in the OCI.
	
For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, the Group combines financial instruments on the 
basis of shared credit risk characteristics with the objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to 
enable significant increases in credit risk to be identified on a timely basis.
	
	
	
Financial liabilities
	
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
At initial recognition, financial liabilities are classified at FVTPL, at fair value through other equity, loans 
and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as 
appropriate. The resultant gain or loss arising on extinguishment of the existing debt with restructured 
debt and fair value of financial instruments issued to Lenders as per the terms of Resolution plan shall be 
recognised to other equity.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
311
	
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below:
	
	
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
	
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and 
designated upon initial recognition as at FVTPL. Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if 
they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes derivative 
financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge 
relationships as defined by Ind AS 109. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for 
trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
	
	
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at FVTPL are designated as such at the initial date 
of recognition, and only if the criteria in Ind AS 109 are satisfied. For liabilities designated as FVTPL, fair 
value gains/ losses attributable to changes in own credit risk are recognised in OCI. These gains/ losses 
are not subsequently transferred to statement of profit and loss. However, the Group may transfer the 
cumulative gain or loss within equity. All other changes in fair value of such liability are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss. The Group has not designated any financial liability at FVTPL.
	
	
	
Loans and borrowings
	
	
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost using the EIR method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium 
on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. Gains and losses are recognised in 
statement of profit and loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation 
process. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of profit and loss. This category 
generally applies to borrowings.
	
	
	
De-recognition
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or 
expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially 
different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or 
modification is treated as the de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
	
Embedded derivatives
	
	
An embedded derivative is a component of a hybrid (combined) instrument that also includes a non-
derivative host contract with the effect that some of the cash flows of the combined instrument vary in a 
way similar to a standalone derivative. An embedded derivative causes some or all of the cash flows that 
otherwise would be required by the contract to be modified according to a specified interest rate, financial 
instrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or credit 
index, or other variable, provided in the case of a nonfinancial variable that the variable is not specific to 
a party to the contract. Reassessment only occurs if there is either a change in the terms of the contract 
that significantly modifies the cash flows that would otherwise be required or a reclassification of a financial 
asset out of the fair value through statement of profit and loss.
	
If the hybrid contract contains a host that is a financial asset within the scope of Ind AS 109, the Group 
does not separate embedded derivatives. Rather, it applies the classification requirements contained in 
Ind AS 109 to the entire hybrid contract. Derivatives embedded in all other host contracts are accounted 
for as separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic characteristics and risks are not 
closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not held for trading or designated 
at FVTPL. These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in 
statement of profit and loss, unless designated as effective hedging instruments.
Annual Report 2022-23
312
	
	
	
Reclassification of financial assets and liabilities
	
The Group determines classification of financial assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial recognition, 
no reclassification is made for financial assets which are equity instruments and financial liabilities. For financial 
assets which are debt instruments, a reclassification is made only if there is a change in the business model 
for managing those assets. Changes to the business model are expected to be infrequent. The Group’s senior 
management determines change in the business model as a result of external or internal changes which are 
significant to the Group’s operations. Such changes are evident to external parties. A change in the business 
model occurs when the group either begins or ceases to perform an activity that is significant to its operations. 
If the Group reclassifies financial assets, it applies the reclassification prospectively from the reclassification date 
which is the first day of the immediately next reporting period following the change in business model. The Group 
does not restate any previously recognised gains, losses (including impairment gains or losses) or interest.
	
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated 
balance sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is 
an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
	
	
t.	
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
	
	
	
Initial recognition and subsequent measurement
	
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts to hedge its foreign 
currency risks. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on 
which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. Derivatives are 
carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is 
negative. The purchase contracts that meet the definition of a derivative under Ind AS 109 are recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss.
	
Commodity contracts that are entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery 
of a non-financial item in accordance with the Group’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements are 
held at cost.
	
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken directly to profit or loss, 
except for the effective portion of cash flow hedges, which is recognised in OCI and later reclassified to 
statement of profit and loss when the hedge item affects profit or loss or treated as basis adjustment if 
a hedged forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-
financial liability.
	
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
	
•	
Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or 
liability or an unrecognised firm commitment.
	
•	
Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable 
to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 
transaction or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment.
	
•	
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation
	
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship 
to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for 
undertaking the hedge. The documentation includes the Group’s risk management objective and strategy for 
undertaking hedge, the hedging/ economic relationship, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the 
risk being hedged, hedge ratio and how the entity will assess the effectiveness of changes in the hedging 
instrument’s fair value in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows 
attributable to the hedged risk. Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting 
changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have 
been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
	
Hedges that meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for, as described below:
	
	
i.	
Fair value hedges
	
The change in the fair value of a hedging instrument is recognised in the statement of profit and loss as 
finance costs. The change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk hedged is recorded 
as part of the carrying value of the hedged item and is also recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
as finance costs.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
313
	
For fair value hedges relating to items carried at amortised cost, any adjustment to carrying value is 
amortised through profit or loss over the remaining term of the hedge using the EIR method. EIR 
amortisation may begin as soon as an adjustment exists and no later than when the hedged item ceases 
to be adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
	
If the hedged item is derecognised, the unamortised fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
When an unrecognised firm commitment is designated as a hedged item, the subsequent cumulative 
change in the fair value of the firm commitment attributable to the hedged risk is recognised as an asset 
or liability with a corresponding gain or loss recognised in statement of profit and loss.
	
	
ii.	
Cash flow hedges
	
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in OCI in the cash flow 
hedge reserve, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the statement of profit and loss.
	
The Group uses forward currency contracts as hedges of its exposure to foreign currency risk in forecast 
transactions and firm commitments, as well as forward commodity contracts for its exposure to volatility 
in the commodity prices. The ineffective portion relating to foreign currency contracts is recognised in 
finance costs and the ineffective portion relating to commodity contracts is recognised in other income 
or expenses. Amounts recognised as OCI are transferred to profit or loss when the hedged transaction 
affects profit or loss, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or 
when a forecast sale occurs. When the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial 
liability, the amounts recognised as OCI are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial 
asset or liability.
	
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover (as 
part of the hedging strategy), or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, or when the hedge no longer 
meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI remains 
separately in equity until the forecast transaction occurs or the foreign currency firm commitment is met.
	
	
iii.	
Foreign exchange forward contract
	
While the Group entered into other foreign exchange forwards contract with the intention of reducing the 
foreign exchange risk of expected sales and purchases, these other contracts are not designated in hedge 
relationships and are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
	
	
u.	
Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit/ (loss) after tax for the year attributable 
to equity shareholders of the Company (after deducting preference dividends and attributable taxes) 
by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. The weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the year are adjusted for any bonus shares issued during the 
year and also after the balance sheet date but before the date the consolidated financial statements are 
approved by the board of directors.
	
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit/ (loss) after tax for the year attributable 
to equity shareholders of the Company (as adjusted for dividend, interest and other charges to expense 
or income, net of attributable taxes) by the weighted average number of shares considered for deriving 
basic earnings per share and the weighted average number of equity shares which could have been 
issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
	
The number of equity shares and potentially dilutive equity shares are adjusted for bonus shares as 
appropriate. The dilutive potential equity shares are adjusted for the proceeds receivable, had the shares 
been issued at fair value. Dilutive potential equity shares are deemed converted as of the beginning of the 
period, unless issued at a later date.
	
	
v.	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term 
deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value.
Annual Report 2022-23
314
	
	
w.	
Contingent liabilities
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will be 
confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly 
within the control of the entity or a present obligation that arises from past events but is not recognised 
because it is not probable that an outflow of resource embodying economic benefit will be required to 
settle the obligation or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
	
The Group does not recognise a contingent liability but discloses it as per Ind AS 37 Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets in the financial statements unless the possibility of an outflow of 
resources embodying economic benefit is remote.
3.	
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
	
The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the 
accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about these assumptions and 
estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities 
affected in future periods.
	
3.1	 Significant judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policy
	
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, 
which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements:
	
	
Operating lease commitments – Group as a lessor
	
	
The Group has entered into commercial property leases on its investment property portfolio. The Group has 
determined, based on an evaluation of the terms and conditions of the arrangements, such as the lease term 
not constituting a major part of the economic life of the commercial property and the fair value of the asset, 
that it retains all the significant risks and rewards of ownership of these properties and accounts for the 
contracts as operating leases.
	
	
Revenue from contracts with customers
	
	
The Group applied the following judgements that significantly affect the determination of the amount and 
timing of revenue from contracts with customers:
	
	
•	
Identifying performance obligations
	
	
The Group supplies WTG that are either sold separately or bundled together with project execution activities 
to customers.
	
	
The Group determined that both the supply of WTGs and project execution activities can be performed 
distinctly on a stand-alone basis which indicates that the customer can benefit from respective performance 
obligations on their own. The Group also determined that the promises to supply the WTG and execute projects 
are distinct within the context of the contract and are not inputs to a combined item in the contract. Further, 
the WTG supply and project execution activities are not highly interdependent or highly interrelated, as the 
Group would be able to supply WTGs wherein the project execution activities can be performed by customers 
directly. Further, the Group uses output method for measuring the progress of performance obligation as it 
represents a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods or services.
	
	
•	
Determining method to estimate variable consideration and assessing the constraint.
	
	
Contracts for the supply of WTGs and project execution activities include a right for penalty in case of delayed 
delivery or commissioning and compensation for performance shortfall expected in future over the life of the 
guarantee assured that give rise to variable consideration. In estimating the variable consideration, the Group 
considers the dynamics of each contract and the factors relevant to that sale on a case to case basis.
	
	
Before including any amount of variable consideration in the transaction price, the Group considers whether 
the amount of variable consideration is constrained. The Group determined that the estimates of variable 
consideration are not constrained based on its historical experience, business forecast and the current 
economic conditions. In addition, the uncertainty on the variable consideration will be resolved within a short 
time frame.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
315
	
	
Taxes
	
	
The Group does not recognise DTL with respect to unremitted retained earnings and associated foreign currency 
translation reserve of Group subsidiaries and joint ventures wherever it controls the timing of the distribution 
of profits and it is probable that the subsidiaries and joint ventures will not distribute the profit and foreseeable 
future. Also, the Group does not recognise DTL on the unremitted earnings of its subsidiaries wherever it believes 
that it would avail the tax credit for the dividend distribution tax payable by the subsidiaries on its dividend 
distribution.
	
	
Classification of interest as associate/ joint venture
	
	
The Group has analysed the contractual terms with the parties in order to determine classification of an entity 
as an associate/ joint venture.
	
3.2	 Significant accounting estimates and assumptions
	
	
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within 
the next financial year, are described below. Uncertainty about these assumption and estimates could result in 
outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
	
	
Allowance for trade receivables
	
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their normal value as reduced by appropriate 
allowance for expected credit loss (“ECL”). The Group recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime 
ECL at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition. For recognition of impairment loss, the Group 
determines that whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. The 
carrying value of allowance for credit impairment and ECL is ₹ 207.91 Crore as at March 31, 2023 (previous 
year: ₹ 269.85 Crore), refer Note 12.
	
	
Taxes
	
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing of 
future taxable income. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long term nature and 
complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and the assumption 
made, or future changes to such assumption, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense 
already recorded. The Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences 
of audits by the tax authorities of the respective countries in which it operates.
	
The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as experience of previous tax audits and differing 
interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible tax authority. Such differences of 
interpretations may arise on a wide variety of issues depending on the conditions prevailing in the respective Group 
Company’s domicile.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will 
be available against which the losses can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine 
the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future 
taxable profits, future tax planning strategies. The Group has unabsorbed depreciation, business losses and 
capital losses, details of which are given in Note 35.3.
	
	
Defined benefit plans (gratuity benefits)
	
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are determined 
using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from 
actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary increases 
and mortality rates. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit 
obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. Assumptions are reviewed at each reporting 
date.
	
The parameter most subject to change is the discount rate. In determining the appropriate discount rate for 
plans operated, the management considers the interest rates of government bonds in currencies consistent 
with the currencies of the post-employment benefit obligation.
	
The mortality rate used in determining the defined benefit plan obligations differ from subsidiary to subsidiary. 
The estimates of future salary increase consider the inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors.
	
	
Further details about gratuity obligations are given in Note 38.
Annual Report 2022-23
316
	
	
Fair value measurement of financial instruments
	
When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the consolidated balance sheet cannot 
be measured based on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques 
including the Discounted cash flow (“DCF”) model. The inputs to these models are taken from observable 
markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair 
values. Judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes 
in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments. See Note 44 
further disclosures.
	
	
Intangible assets under development
	
The Group capitalises intangible asset under development for a project in accordance with the accounting 
policy. Initial capitalisation of costs is based on management’s judgement that technological and economic 
feasibility is confirmed, usually when a product development project has reached a defined milestone according 
to an established project management model. In determining the amounts to be capitalised, management 
makes assumptions regarding the expected future cash generation of the project, discount rates to be applied 
and the expected period of benefits.
	
	
The carrying value of intangible assets under development has been disclosed in Note 7.
	
	
Property, plant and equipment
	
	
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment has been disclosed in Note 6.
4.	
Implementation of Refinancing Proposal
	
The Company and its subsidiaries Suzlon Global Services Limited (‘SGSL’), Suzlon Power Infrastructure Limited 
(‘SPIL’) and Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited (‘SGWPL’) and a joint venture Suzlon Generators Limited (‘SGL’) together 
referred to as Suzlon The Group (“STG”) entered into an agreement with the Erstwhile lenders for refinancing the 
outstanding restructured facilities (“Refinancing Proposal”) based on sanction letters from REC Limited and Indian 
Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited (“the New Lenders”). On May 24, 2022 (“Effective Date”), the 
Refinancing Proposal was consummated, and the outstanding obligations of STG under the Restructured Facilities 
were discharged as follows:
i.	
Outstanding Rupee Term Loan along with accrued interest has been paid off in full;
ii.	
Limits of non-fund based working capital facilities against cash margin or Letter of Comfort (“LOC”) have been 
released or transferred or replaced;
iii.	
Entire outstanding 410,000 number of Optionally Convertible Debentures (“OCD”) having face value of 
₹ 100,000 each issued by the Company have been converted in full with 571,428,572 equity shares having face 
value of ₹ 2 each of the Company allotted to the Erstwhile Lenders;
iv.	
445,301 number of Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares (“CCPS”) having face value of ₹ 100,000 each 
issued by Suzlon Global Services Limited (“SGSL”) have been converted into full with 4,454 equity shares 
having face value of ₹ 10 each of SGSL getting allotted to the Erstwhile Lenders;
v.	
The requirement of maintaining the lock-in for 997,176,872 equity shares having face value of ₹ 2 each of the 
Company issued to the Erstwhile Lenders as stipulated in the Framework Restructuring Agreement dated June 
30, 2020 was waived and;
vi.	
498,588,439 number of convertible warrants issued by the Company to the Erstwhile Lenders were surrendered.
	
	
STG till April 07, 2022 includes SEL, SGSL, SPIL, SGPWL and SGL. Post April 07, 2022 STG includes SEL, SGSL, 
SPIL (since merged with SGSL, refer Note 49 (i)) and SGWPL.
5.	
During the year, the Company received a show cause notice (SCN) from SEBI, in respect of certain specific 
transactions between the Company and its domestic subsidiaries and disclosure of contingent liability in respect 
of earlier financial years from 2013-14 to 2017-18. The management has responded to the SCN and has denied the 
allegations made by the SEBI. Additionally, the management has also filed a settlement application in accordance 
with of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018 (the “SEBI Settlement 
Regulations”) to settle the matter without admission of guilt with respect to such allegations. This matter has been 
disclosed under contingent liability and the management believes that there is no material impact of this matter on 
these consolidated financial statements.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
317
6.	
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’)
Particulars
Gross block
Accumulated depreciation / impairment
Net block
As at 
April 1, 
2022
Additions Translation 
adjustment
Deductions /
adjustment
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
April 1, 
2022
Charge 
for the 
year
Translation 
adjustment
Deductions/ 
adjustment
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2023
Land
117.84
0.53
(0.03)
-
118.34
-
-
-
-
-
118.34
Buildings
544.46
18.31
-
137.72
425.05
339.91
33.58
-
128.17
245.32
179.73
Site development
72.44
-
-
28.04
44.40
29.34
1.32
-
28.02
2.64
41.76
Plant and machinery
983.50
40.41
(0.31)
62.04
961.56
611.88
89.91
(0.24)
55.73
645.82
315.74
Wind research and measuring 
equipment
18.75
6.86
0.03
9.12
16.52
15.69
3.22
0.03
8.28
10.66
5.86
Computer and office equipment
90.61
12.08
1.29
0.99
102.99
69.96
9.51
1.07
0.07
80.47
22.52
Furniture and fixtures
51.55
1.31
0.40
0.65
52.61
43.07
1.35
0.35
0.45
44.32
8.29
Vehicles
21.77
1.27
0.06
(0.78)
23.88
17.57
1.28
0.06
(0.87)
19.78
4.10
Total
1,900.92
80.77
1.44
237.78
1,745.35 1,127.42
140.17
1.27
219.85
1,049.01
696.34
Particulars
Gross block
Accumulated depreciation / impairment
Net block
As at 
April 1, 
2021
Additions Translation 
adjustment
Deductions /
adjustment
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
April 1, 
2021
Charge 
for the 
year
Translation 
adjustment
Deductions/ 
adjustment
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 31, 
2022
Land
120.81
0.53
0.01
3.51
117.84
-
-
-
-
-
117.84
Buildings
538.73
13.58
0.13
7.98
544.46
323.87
22.94
0.12
7.02
339.91
204.55
Site development
72.44
-
-
-
72.44
28.02
1.32
-
-
29.34
43.10
Plant and machinery
1,049.14
75.71
1.25
142.60
983.50
663.64
82.97
1.18
135.91
611.88
371.62
Wind research and measuring 
equipment
26.68
0.70
(0.01)
8.62
18.75
20.90
2.74
(0.01)
7.94
15.69
3.06
Computer and office equipment
92.67
12.52
(0.39)
14.19
90.61
75.01
6.28
(0.36)
10.97
69.96
20.65
Furniture and fixtures
52.95
1.50
(0.16)
2.74
51.55
43.70
1.63
(0.11)
2.15
43.07
8.48
Vehicles
22.53
0.10
0.04
0.90
21.77
16.96
1.44
0.04
0.87
17.57
4.20
Total
1,975.95
104.64
0.87
180.54
1,900.92
1,172.10
119.32
0.86
164.86
1,127.42
773.50
	
Notes:
	
a.	
Buildings include those constructed on leasehold land forming part of ROU assets.
	
b.	
For contractual commitment with respect to property, plant and equipment refer Note 40.
	
c.	
For details of property, plant and equipment given as security to Lenders refer Note 22.4.
	
d.	
The translation adjustment is the difference resulting from translating foreign currency to Indian currency at closing exchange rate.
Annual Report 2022-23
318
7.	
Other Intangible assets and goodwill
Particulars
Gross block
Accumulated amortisation / impairment
Net block
 As at 
April 1, 
2022
Additions
Translation 
adjustment
Deductions / 
adjustments
As at 
March 
31, 2023
 As at 
April 1, 
2022
Charge for 
the year
Translation 
adjustment
Deductions / 
adjustment
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2023
Other intangible assets
Design and drawings
994.24
33.16
18.23
369.16
676.47
876.69
94.41
18.23
369.16
620.17
56.30
SAP and other software
39.99
0.33
0.60
1.40
39.52
36.43
1.76
0.55
1.40
37.34
2.18
Total
1,034.23
33.49
18.83
370.56
715.99
913.12
96.17
18.78
370.56
657.51
58.48
Goodwill 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Particulars
Gross block
Accumulated amortisation / impairment
Net block
 As at 
April 1, 
2021
Additions
Translation 
adjustment
Deductions / 
adjustments
As at 
March 31, 
2022
 As at 
April 1, 
2021
Charge for 
the year
Translation 
adjustment
Deductions / 
adjustment
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 31, 
2022
Other intangible assets
Design and drawings
949.68
38.24
6.35
0.03
994.24
766.27
104.08
6.35
0.01
876.69
117.55
SAP and other software
38.49
1.80
(0.21)
0.09
39.99
31.44
5.29
(0.21)
0.09
36.43
3.56
Total
988.17
40.04
6.14
0.12
1,034.23
797.71
109.37
6.14
0.10
913.12
121.11
Goodwill 
7.63
-
-
7.63
-
-
7.63
-
7.63
-
-
	
Notes:
	
a.	
For details of intangible assets given as security to Lenders refer Note 22.4.
	
b.	
The translation adjustment is the difference resulting from translating foreign currency to Indian currency at closing exchange rate.
	
c.	
Design and drawings are internally generated.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
319
8.	
Capital work-in-progress (CWIP)
	
CWIP as at March 31, 2023 stood at ₹ 2.57 Crore (previous year: ₹ 15.21 Crore), which primarily includes building and 
plant and machinery under construction. During the year, CWIP of ₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 17.49 Crore), is written off 
under its annual impairment test.
	
8.1	 CWIP ageing schedule 
< 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
> 3 years
Total
As at March 31, 2023
Projects in progress
1.36
0.12
-
1.09
2.57
Projects temporarily suspended 
-
-
-
-
-
Total
1.36
0.12
-
1.09
2.57
As at March 31, 2022
Projects in progress
10.34
1.59
1.82
1.09
14.84
Projects temporarily suspended 
-
0.37
-
-
0.37
Total
10.34
1.96
1.82
1.09
15.21
	
	
The expected completion schedule for amounts lying in CWIP as at the year-end is within 1 to 2 years.
9.	
Investment properties
	
The Group’s investment properties consist of three commercial properties given on lease.
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Gross block 
Opening balance 
53.44
53.63
Additions
-
-
Deduction/ adjustments
(-)
(0.19)
Closing balance
53.44
53.44
Accumulated depreciation 
Opening balance
22.58
20.99
Depreciation 
1.65
1.63
Deduction/ adjustments
(-)
(0.04)
Closing balance 
24.23
22.58
Net block
29.21
30.86
	
9.1	 Information regarding income and expenditure of investment properties:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Rental income derived from investment properties
8.88
9.22
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) 
(1.96)
(1.90)
Depreciation 
(1.65)
(1.63)
Profit before indirect expenses
5.27
5.69
Annual Report 2022-23
320
	
9.2	 Fair value and valuation techniques:
	
As at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 the fair value of the properties were ₹ 65.74 Crore and ₹ 81.82 Crore 
respectively. The fair valuation is derived by management internally on the basis of DCF method. Description 
of key inputs to valuation on investment properties is as below:
Investment 
property
Significant unobservable inputs
Range
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Godrej Millennium
Condominium
Rent growth p.a.
5%
5%
Rent growth p.a. (for terminal value)
2%
2%
Long term vacancy rate
0%
0%
Long term vacancy rate (for terminal value)
7%
7%
Discount rate
10.42%
8.68%
Aqua Lounge
One Earth
Rent growth p.a.
5%
5%
Rent growth p.a. (for terminal value)
2%
2%
Long term vacancy rate
10%
10%
Long term vacancy rate (for terminal value)
7%
7%
Discount rate
10.42%
8.68%
Sun Lounge
One Earth
Rent growth p.a.
5%
5%
Rent growth p.a. (for terminal value)
2%
2%
Long term vacancy rate
10%
10%
Long term vacancy rate (for terminal value)
7%
7%
Discount rate
10.42%
8.68%
	
Under the DCF method, fair value is estimated using assumptions regarding the benefits and liabilities of 
ownership over the investment property life including an exit or terminal value. This method involves the 
projection of a series of cash flows on a real property interest. To this projected cash flow series, a market-
derived discount rate is applied to establish the present value of the income stream associated with the asset.
	
For details of investment properties given as security to Lenders refer Note 22.4.
10.	 Intangible assets under development (IAUD)
	
Intangible assets under development as at March 31, 2023 stood at ₹ 3.43 Crore (previous year: ₹ 4.42 Crore) which 
primarily includes design and drawings under development.
	
10.1	IAUD ageing schedule
< 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
> 3 years
Total
As at March 31, 2023
Projects in progress
3.43
-
-
-
3.43
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
3.43
-
-
-
3.43
As at March 31, 2022
Projects in progress
4.42
-
-
-
4.42
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
4.42
-
-
-
4.42
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
321
11.	 Investments
	
Non-current
	
11.1	 Investments in an associate and joint ventures
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
a.	 Investment in equity instrument of an associate, at cost
	
Suzlon Energy (Tianjin) Limited, China#
40.36
40.36
	
Less: Impairment allowance
(40.36)
(40.36)
	
Total
-
-
b.	 Investment in equity instrument of a joint venture (‘JV’), at cost
	
26 (26) equity shares of MUR 1,000 each fully paid of Consortium 
Suzlon-Padgreen Co Ltd (‘Padgreen’) #
-
-
	
Total
-
-
	
	
The Group has interest in associates as listed in Note 1.2 and joint ventures as listed in Note 1.3.
	
	
# Due to certain reasons, the Group could not obtain the financial statements and hence the details of financial information 
and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investments are not available as of March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022.
	
	
Summarised balance sheet of Suzlon Generators Limited, joint venture. (refer Note 34 b):
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Current assets
-
32.41
Non-current assets
-
15.16
Total assets
-
47.57
Current liabilities
-
30.38
Non-current liabilities
-
0.31
Total liabilities
-
30.69
Equity
-
16.88
Carrying amount of investment 
-
12.66
Group’s share in capital and other commitment 
-
0.01
Group’s share in contingent liabilities 
-
0.02
	
	
Summarised statement of profit and loss of Suzlon Generators Limited, a joint venture (refer Note 34 b):
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Total income 
-
162.90
Total expenses
-
(176.71)
Loss for the year
-
(13.81)
Other comprehensive income
-
0.06
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
(13.75)
Group's share of profit / (loss) for the year
-
(10.31)
Total investments in an associate and joint ventures 
-
-
Annual Report 2022-23
322
	
11.2	Investments at fair value through profit and loss
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
a.	 Investment in government securities
0.02
0.02
b.	 7,550 (previous year: 7,550) equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid of 
Saraswat Co-operative Bank Limited
0.01
0.01
c.	 30 (previous year: 30) equity shares of ₹ 10 of Godrej Millennium 
Condominium
0.00*
0.00*
Total
0.03
0.03
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments (cost)
58.36
58.36
Aggregate amount of impairment allowance
(40.36)
(40.36)
	
	
*Less than ₹ 0.01 Crore
	
	
For details of investments given as security to Lenders refer Note 22.4
12.	 Trade receivables
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Non-current
Unsecured, considered doubtful
Credit impaired
193.63
252.34
Less: Allowance for credit impairment
(193.63)
(252.34)
Total 
-
-
Current
Unsecured, considered good
1,184.72
1,394.46
Less: Allowance for expected credit loss
(14.28)
(17.51)
Total 
1,170.44
1,376.95
	
During the year, the reduction in trade receivables is primarily on account of lower volume.
	
Trade receivables are disclosed at amortised cost.
	
For details of receivable given as security to Lenders refer Note 22.4.
	
12.1	 Ageing schedule for trade receivables
Current 
but not 
due
Outstanding from due date of payment
Total
< 6 
months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 
years
> 3 years
As at March 31, 2023
 
Undisputed trade 
receivables
Considered good
-
609.53
123.15
124.36
38.41
235.38
1,130.83
Credit impaired
-
0.09
4.30
16.35
22.95
119.76
163.45
Disputed trade receivables
Considered good
-
1.49
0.15
0.19
1.19
50.77
53.89
Credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
30.18
30.18
Gross trade receivables
-
611.11
127.60
141.00
62.55
436.09
1,378.35
Allowance for credit 
impairment and expected 
credit loss
-
-
-
-
-
-
(207.91)
Total
1,170.44
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
323
Current 
but not 
due
Outstanding from due date of payment
Total
< 6 
months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 
years
> 3 years
As at March 31, 2022
Undisputed trade 
receivables
Considered good
-
860.46
108.78
60.66
133.50
165.97
1,329.37
Credit impaired
-
-
11.45
25.98
52.19
132.03
221.65
Disputed trade receivables
Considered good
-
12.21
0.11
9.15
2.18
41.44
65.09
Credit impaired
-
-
-
0.28
-
30.41
30.69
Gross trade receivables
-
872.67
120.34
96.07
187.87
369.85
1,646.80
Allowance for credit 
impairment and expected 
credit loss
-
-
-
-
-
-
(269.85)
Total
1,376.95
	
12.2	Movement in allowance for credit impairment and expected credit loss is as under:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Balance as at the beginning of the year
269.85
221.67
Add: Impairment allowance/ (reversal) during the year, net
(61.94)
48.18
Balance as at the end of the year
207.91
269.85
	
12.3	Relationship with struck off companies
Name of struck off company
Nature of 
transactions
Transactions  
during the year 
ended
 Balance  
outstanding as at
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Stribog Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
Trade  
receivables
-
0.02 
0.02
0.02
None
UWE Energy Private Ltd.
-
0.18
-
0.12
13.	 Loans
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Current
Unsecured, considered good
Inter-corporate deposits
0.02
0.02
Loans to employees
0.59
0.94
Total
0.61
0.96
	
13.1	Loans granted to related parties that are repayable on demand:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Amount of loan 
outstanding
% of total loans Amount of loan 
outstanding
% of total loans
 Current
0.02
3.28%
0.01 
1.04% 
	
	
Loans are disclosed at amortised cost.
	
	
For details of loans given as security to Lenders refer Note 22.4
Annual Report 2022-23
324
14.	 Other financial assets
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Non-current
Bank balances (refer Note a below)
357.49
94.35
Security deposits 
Unsecured, considered good
22.75
88.23
Unsecured, considered doubtful
0.00*
13.53
Less : Allowance for doubtful deposits
(0.00)*
(13.53)
22.75
88.23
Other assets (refer Note b below)
52.90
81.73
Total
433.14
 264.31
Current
Security deposits (unsecured, considered good)
8.01
6.95
Interest accrued on deposits, loans and advances
3.86
1.14
Other assets (refer Note b below)
137.18
112.41
Total
149.05
 120.50
	
* Less than ₹ 0.01 Crore
a.	
Bank balances mainly represents margin money deposits, which are subject to first charge towards non-fund 
based facilities from Lenders.
b.	
Other assets include ₹ 72.35 Crore (previous year: ₹ 102.57 Crore) towards expenditure incurred by Group on 
development of infrastructure facilities for power evacuation arrangements as per authorisation of the State 
Electricity Board ('SEB') / Nodal agencies in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The expenditure is reimbursed, on 
agreed terms, by the SEB/ Nodal agencies. In certain cases, the Group had received contribution towards 
power evacuation infrastructure from customers in the ordinary course of business. The cost incurred towards 
development of infrastructure facility is reduced by the reimbursements received from SEB/ Nodal agencies 
and the net amount is shown as Infrastructure Development Asset under other financial assets. During the 
year, the Group had provided for ₹ 1.26 Crore (previous year: ₹ 13.68 Crore) based on ECLs at the reporting 
date.
c.	
Other financial assets include deposits of ₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 0.61 Crore) from private companies in which 
director is a director or member.
	
	
All the financial assets are disclosed at amortised cost.
	
	
For details of financial assets given as security to lenders refer Note 22.4.
15.	 Other assets
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Non-current
Capital advances (unsecured, considered good)
4.13
4.08
Advances recoverable in kind 
Unsecured, considered doubtful
8.36
41.40
Less : Allowance for doubtful advances
(8.36)
(41.40)
-
-
Advance income tax (net of provisions)
34.65
20.96
Prepaid expenses
1.44
4.20
Total
40.22
29.24
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
325
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Current
Advances recoverable in kind (unsecured, considered good)
428.79
333.04
Prepaid expenses
18.75
89.74
Balances with government/ statutory authorities
179.56
388.48
Total
627.10
811.26
	
For details of other assets given as security to Lenders refer Note 22.4
16.	 Inventories (valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)
 March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Raw materials (including goods-in-transit)
870.80
1,095.93
Finished goods, semi-finished goods and work- in- progress
711.33
843.87
Stores and spares
164.81
164.55
Land and lease rights
80.19
103.55
Total
1,827.13
2,207.90
	
For details of inventories given as security to Lenders refer Note 22.4
17.	 Cash and cash equivalents
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
a. 	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Balances with banks
366.79
436.57
	
Cash on hand
0.52
0.81
367.31
437.38
b. 	 Bank balance other than (a) above (earmarked)
-
63.05
Total
367.31
500.43
	
There are no restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year and previous year.
18.	 Assets held for sale
Investment type
Investments in
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Equity shares 
and compulsorily 
convertible debentures
Aalok Solarfarms Limited 
2.96
2.96
Abha Solarfarms Limited
6.62
6.62
Heramba Renewables Limited
13.71
13.71
Shreyas Solarfarms Limited
12.18
12.18
Equity shares
Vayudoot Solarfarms Limited (refer Note 49 a)
-
14.12
Suzlon Generators Limited (refer Note 34 b) 
-
12.66
Property, plant and 
equipment
Freehold land (refer Note 34 d)
-
3.51
Total assets held for sale
35.47
65.76
Total liabilities directly associated with the assets held for sale
-
-
	
The Group has reclassified its investment in above entities and assets under “Assets held for sale”, as the same is 
intended to dispose within next 12 months.
Annual Report 2022-23
326
19.	 Equity share capital
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Authorised shares
55,000,000,000 (previous year: 55,000,000,000) equity shares of ₹ 2 each
11,000.00
11,000.00
Issued shares (refer Note 19.7)
12,089,841,003 (previous year: 9,236,376,014) equity shares of ₹ 2 each fully 
paid-up
2,417.97
1,847.28
402,178,057 (previous year: Nil) equity shares of ₹ 2 each partly paid-up
40.22
-
2,458.19
1,847.28
Subscribed and fully paid-up shares (refer Note 19.7)
12,070,909,026 (previous year: 92,174,44,037) equity shares of ₹ 2 each fully 
paid-up
2,414.18
1,843.49
Subscribed and partly paid-up shares (refer Note 19.7)
402,178,057 (previous year: Nil) equity shares of ₹ 2 each partly paid-up ₹ 1 
each
40.22
-
2,454.40
1,843.49
	
19.1	 Reconciliation of the equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the financial year
 Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Number of shares 
(Crore)
₹ Crore Number of shares 
(Crore)
₹ Crore
Opening balance
921.74
1,843.49
850.80
1,701.60
Issued during the year (refer Note 19.6, 19.7 
and 22.2) 
325.57
610.91
70.94
141.89
Closing balance
1,247.31
2,454.40
921.74
1,843.49
	
19.2	Terms/ rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ₹ 2 each. The voting rights of the 
shareholders shall be in proportion to their shares in the paid-up equity share capital of the Company i.e. each 
holder of fully paid-up equity share is entitled to one vote per share and each holder of partly paid-up equity 
share is entitled to half a vote per share. 
	
The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees (₹). The dividend proposed by the Board of 
Directors is subject to approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
	
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holder of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining 
assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to 
the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
	
The Company on February 13, 2015 signed a Shareholder Agreement as amended by an Amendment Agreement 
dated December 11, 2015 (collectively the "Agreement") with the Investor Group in terms of which the Investor 
Group agreed to subscribe to 100 Crore equity shares at the rate of ₹ 18 per shares aggregating to ₹ 1,800.00 
Crore, which were allotted on May 15, 2015.
	
Subsequently, the Company has entered into (i) securities subscription agreement with the Investor Group 
dated February 28, 2020 (“Investor SSA”); (ii) an amended and restated shareholders’ agreement with the 
Investor Group and promoters of the Company dated February 28, 2020 (“SHA”); and (iii) securities subscription 
agreement with Tanti Holdings Private Limited (“Promoter Group”) dated February 28, 2020 (“Promoter SSA”). 
In terms of Promoter SSA, the Company has, on June 27, 2020, issued and allotted 408,077,000 equity shares 
of ₹ 2 each for cash at an issue price of ₹ 2.45 per share to Tanti Holdings Private Limited on preferential 
basis. Further, in terms of Investor SSA, the Company has on June 27, 2020, issued and allotted 204,077,000 
equity shares of ₹ 2 each for cash at an issue price of ₹ 2.45 per share and 4,998 Compulsorily Convertible 
Debentures (CCDs) of ₹ 100,000/- each for cash at par to the Investor Group on preferential basis. The said 
4,998 CCDs have been mandatorily converted into 203,998,368 equity shares on December 26, 2021 at a 
conversion price of ₹ 2.45 per share as per the terms of issue and allotment of CCDs.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
327
	
19.3 Aggregate number of bonus shares issued, share issued for consideration other than cash and shares 
bought back during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date:
	
	
Nil during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date.
	
	
•	
Securities convertible into equity/ preference shares issued along with the date of conversion:
	
In June 2020, the Company had allotted securities in the form of Optionally Convertible Debentures (OCDs) 
aggregating to ₹ 4,100 Crore, due 2040, on preferential basis to the Erstwhile Lenders in accordance with 
the Resolution Plan, convertible only in the event of default. The Company had also allotted 49.86 Crore full 
paid-up share warrants, on preferential basis to the Erstwhile Lenders in accordance with the Resolution Plan, 
convertible only in the event that Part A Facilities under Resolution Plan are not classified as “Standard” as per 
IRAC norms within the stipulated timelines. Subsequently, on May 24, 2022, pursuant to the implementation of 
the refinancing proposal, the entire outstanding value of OCDs was converted into 571,428,572 equity shares 
having a face value of ₹ 2/- and the share warrants were lapsed. (Refer Note 4).
	
19.4	Shares reserved for issue under options
	
	
For details of shares reserved for issue on conversion of FCCBs, refer Note 19.6 and 22.6 for terms of conversion/ 
redemption.
	
19.5 Details of shares held by promoters and shareholders holding more than 5% in the Company: 
Sr. 
No.
Promoter Name
No. of 
shares at the 
beginning of 
the year
 % of 
total 
shares
Change 
during the 
year
 No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
 % of 
total 
shares
% 
change 
during 
the year
As at March 31, 2023
 
 
 
 
 
1
Tulsi R. Tanti
3,905,000
0.04
929,761
4,834,761
0.04
0.00
2
Gita T. Tanti 
64,512,000
0.70
(64,500,000)
12,000
0.00
(0.70)
3
Pranav T. Tanti as karta of 
Tulsi Ranchhodbhai HUF 
18,000,000
0.20
-
18,000,000
0.14
(0.06)
4
Vinod R. Tanti as karta of 
Ranchhodbhai Ramjibhai 
HUF 
42,570,000
0.46
10,135,714
52,705,714
0.42
(0.04)
5
Tulsi R. Tanti J/w. Vinod R. 
Tanti J/w. Jitendra R. Tanti
42,660,000
0.46
10,157,142
52,817,142
0.42
(0.04)
6
Vinod R. Tanti 
25,267,000
0.27
5,000,000
30,267,000
0.24
(0.03)
7
Jitendra R. Tanti 
16,100,000
0.17
(7,077,000)
9,023,000
0.07
(0.10)
8
Sangita V. Tanti
70,182,000
0.76
(70,182,000)
-
-
(0.76)
9
Lina J. Tanti
70,182,000
0.76
(70,182,000)
-
-
(0.76)
10
Rambhaben Ukabhai 
16,566,000
0.18
456,611,759
473,177,759
3.79
3.61
11
Vinod R. Tanti as karta of 
Vinod Ranchhodbhai HUF
5,000,000
0.05
(5,000,000)
-
-
(0.05)
12
Jitendra R. Tanti as karta of 
Jitendra Ranchhodbhai HUF 
9,023,000
0.10
(9,023,000)
-
-
(0.10)
13
Pranav T. Tanti 
42,504,000
0.46
(42,504,000)
-
-
(0.46)
14
Nidhi T. Tanti 
3,052,000
0.03
(3,052,000)
-
-
(0.03)
15
Rajan V. Tanti 
16,605,000
0.18
(16,605,000)
-
-
(0.18)
16
Brij J. Tanti 
37,117,000
0.40
(37,117,000)
-
-
(0.40)
17
Trisha J. Tanti 
15,120,000
0.16
(15,120,000)
-
-
(0.16)
18
Girish R. Tanti
100,019,000
1.09
-
100,019,000
0.80
(0.29)
19
Tanti Holdings Private 
Limited
566,978,093
6.15
134,994,781
701,972,874
5.63
(0.52)
20
Samanvaya Holdings Private 
Limited
295,499,363
3.21
70,356,990
365,856,353
2.93
(0.28)
Total
1,460,861,456
15.85
347,824,147
1,808,685,603
14.50
(1.35)
Total paid-up capital
9,217,444,037
100.00
12,473,087,083 100.00
Annual Report 2022-23
328
Sr. 
No.
Promoter Name
No. of 
shares at the 
beginning of 
the year
 % of 
total 
shares
Change 
during the 
year
 No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
 % of 
total 
share
% 
change 
during 
the year
As at March 31, 2022
1
Tulsi R. Tanti
 3,905,000
0.05
-
3,905,000
0.04
 (0.01)
2
Gita T. Tanti
 64,512,000
0.76
-
64,512,000
0.70
 (0.06)
3
Tulsi R. Tanti as karta of 
Tulsi Ranchhodbhai HUF
 18,000,000
0.21
-
18,000,000
0.20
 (0.01)
4
Tulsi R. Tanti as karta of 
Ranchhodbhai Ramjibhai 
HUF
 42,570,000
0.50
-
42,570,000
0.46
 (0.04)
5
Tulsi R. Tanti J/w. Vinod 
R. Tanti J/w. Jitendra R. 
Tanti
 42,660,000
0.50
-
42,660,000
0.46
 (0.04)
6
Vinod R. Tanti
 25,267,000
 0.30
-
25,267,000
0.27
 (0.03)
7
Jitendra R. Tanti
 16,100,000
0.19
-
16,100,000
0.17
 (0.02)
8
Sangita V. Tanti
 70,182,000
0.82
-
70,182,000
0.76
 (0.06)
9
Lina J. Tanti
 70,182,000
0.82
-
70,182,000
0.76
 (0.06)
10
Rambhaben Ukabhai
 16,566,000
0.19
-
16,566,000
0.18
 (0.01)
11
Vinod R. Tanti as karta of
Vinod Ranchhodbhai 
HUF
 5,000,000
0.06
-
5,000,000
0.05
 (0.01)
12
Jitendra R. Tanti as 
karta of Jitendra 
Ranchhodbhai HUF
 9,023,000
0.11
-
9,023,000
0.10
 (0.01)
13
Pranav T. Tanti
 42,504,000
0.50
-
 42,504,000
0.46
 (0.04)
14
Nidhi T. Tanti
 3,052,000
0.04
-
 3,052,000
0.03
 (0.01)
15
Rajan V. Tanti
 16,605,000
0.20
-
 16,605,000
0.18
 (0.02)
16
Brij J. Tanti
 37,117,000
0.44
-
 37,117,000
0.40
 (0.04)
17
Trisha J. Tanti
 15,120,000
0.18
-
 15,120,000
0.16
 (0.02)
18
Girish R. Tanti
 100,019,000
1.18
-
 100,019,000
1.09
 (0.09)
19
Tanti Holdings Private 
Limited
 566,978,093
6.66
-
 566,978,093
6.15
 (0.51)
20
Samanvaya Holdings 
Private Limited
 295,499,363
3.47
-
 295,499,363
3.21
 (0.26)
Total
1,460,861,456
17.17
-
1,460,861,456
15.85
 (1.32)
Total paid-up capital
8,508,012,773
100.00
9,217,444,037
100.00
	
Note: As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders / members and other declarations 
received from shareholders regarding beneficial interest, the above shareholding represents both legal and 
beneficial ownership of shares.
	
19.6 Conversion of Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (‘FCCB’)
	
On September 23, 2022, the Company has allotted 28.42 Crore equity shares having a face value of ₹ 2/- each 
on conversion of 27,977 convertible bonds due 2032 having a face value of USD 320 each aggregating to a 
principal amount of USD 9,455,285 (after capitalising interest @ 2.75% per annum accrued on half yearly basis) 
at a conversion price of ₹ 2.49 with a fixed rate of exchange on conversion of ₹ 74.8464 to USD 1.00 forming 
part of USD 35,931,200.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
329
	
19.7	Rights Issue
	
Pursuant to the approval of the Board of Directors at their meeting dated August 10, 2022, the Company offered 240 
Crore partly-paid equity shares to the existing eligible shareholders on a right basis in the ratio of five equity shares 
for every twenty one equity shares held by them on the record date of October 4, 2022. On October 31, 2022, the 
Company allotted 240 Crore partly paid-up equity shares of face value of ₹ 2.00 each at an issue price of ₹ 5.00 per 
equity share, i.e. at a premium of ₹ 3.00 per equity share. The applicants were required to pay ₹ 2.50 per equity share 
on application of which ₹ 1.00 per equity share is appropriated towards face value and remaining ₹ 1.50 per equity 
share is appropriated towards securities premium. Subsequently, the Securities Issue Committee of the Board of 
Directors of the Company at its meeting held on February 24, 2023 approved the making of first and final call of 
₹ 2.50, of which ₹ 1.00 per equity share is appropriated towards face value and remaining ₹ 1.50 per equity share 
is appropriated towards securities premium. Out of the total shares allotted in right issue, 402,178,057 equity 
shares remain partly paid up as at March 31, 2023. 
	
Till March 31, 2023, the Company received first and final call money of ₹ 2.50 per share on 1,997,821,943 equity 
shares aggregating to ₹ 499.46 Crore and accordingly the Securities Issue Committee of the Board of Directors 
of the Company, at its meeting held on March 29, 2023, approved conversion of 1,997,821,943 partly paid-up 
equity shares into full paid-up equity shares (Converted Rights Equity Shares).
	
The Rights issue proceeds are utilised in accordance with the objects of the issue as stated in the offer 
document. Details of utilisation of rights issue proceeds are given below:
Particulars
March 31, 2023
Sources of funds
1,099.46
Proceeds from issue
1,099.46
Utilisation of funds
966.90
Repayment of loan to New Lenders
900.00
Payment towards issue expenses
16.50
Payment towards general corporate purposes
50.40
Unutilised funds
132.56
	
19.8	 Employee Stock Option Plan (‘ESOP’)
	
On May 22, 2023, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company 
granted 109,290,000 Options convertible into 109,290,000 equity shares of ₹ 2.00 each to the eligible 
employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries under the Employee Stock Option Plan 2022 at an exercise 
price of ₹ 5.00 per option with 50% vesting (out of which 25% would be retention-based vesting and balance 
25% would be performance-based vesting) at the end of first year from the date of grant and balance 
50% (out of which 25% would be retention-based vesting and balance 25% would be performance-based 
vesting) at the end of second year from the date of grant and exercise period of two years from the date of 
respective vesting.
20.	 Other equity
	
Refer statement of changes in equity for detailed movement in equity balance.
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Equity component of compound financial instruments (refer Note 22.6)
-
13.93
Capital reserve
23.30
23.30
Capital reserve on consolidation
0.03
0.03
Capital redemption reserve
15.00
15.00
Legal and statutory reserve
1.11
1.11
General reserve
916.89
916.89
Securities premium
10,667.59
9,610.92
Capital contribution
6,505.26
6,273.42
Retained earnings 
(18,876.30)
(21,873.18)
Foreign currency translation reserve
(608.14)
(582.48)
Money received against share warrants (refer Note 4 vi)
-
231.84
Total
(1,355.26)
(5,369.22)
Annual Report 2022-23
330
	
Nature and purposes of various items in other equity:
	
a.	
Equity component of compound financial instruments
	
	
The FCCB has been classified as compound instrument. This instrument has been split between equity and 
liability by primarily valuing the liability portion without equity conversion options. The balance between 
instrument value and liability component has been the value of equity conversion options. 
	
b.	
Capital reserve
	
	
The Group recognises profit or loss on purchase / sale of the equity instruments in case of merger to 
capital reserve.
	
c.	
Capital redemption reserve
	
	
The Group has transferred amount from statement of profit or loss to capital redemption reserve on redemption 
of preference shares issued by the Company.
	
d.	
Legal and statutory reserve
	
	
The legal and statutory reserve relates to the research created as per regulations of few overseas subsidiaries.
	
e.	
General reserve
	
	
The Group has transferred a portion of the net profit of the Group before declaring dividend or a portion of net 
profit kept separately for future purpose is disclosed as general reserve.
	
f.	
Securities premium
	
	
Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
g.	
Capital contribution
	
	
The resultant gain arising on extinguishment of debt and fair value of financial instruments issued as per the 
terms of Resolution plan had been transferred to Capital contribution.
	
h.	
Foreign currency translation reserve (‘FCTR’)
	
	
It is the reserve generated due to exchange fluctuation resulting from translation of the financial statements of 
overseas subsidiaries into reporting currency of the parent company i.e. INR (₹).
21.	 Non-controlling interests
	
Non-controlling interest having a balance of ₹ Nil (previous year deficit balance: ₹ 36.08 Crore) relates to interest in 
the subsidiaries of the Group which is held by entities / persons other than the Group.
22.	 Borrowings
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Non-current
Term loan from banks (secured)
63.00
2,231.91
Loans from banks (unsecured)
8.28
21.65
Term loan from financial institutions (secured)
1,445.99
300.11
Optionally Convertible Debentures (secured) (refer Note 22.2)
-
757.34
Compulsory Convertible Preference Shares (unsecured) (refer Note 22.3)
-
2,223.58
Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (unsecured) (refer Note 22.6)
-
57.85
Total
1,517.27
5,592.44
Current
Current maturities of long-term borrowings
345.58
771.33
Working capital facilities from banks (secured)
42.03
26.79
Total
387.61
798.12
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
331
	
22.1	Implementation of RTL Agreement 
	
On April 28, 2022, the Company along with its identified subsidiaries entered into a Rupee Term Loan Agreement 
(“RTL Agreement”) with the New Lenders for refinancing the borrowing facilities of the STG. On May 24, 2022 
(“Effective Date”), on consummation of refinancing proposal (refer Note 4), STG refinanced their borrowing 
facilities from erstwhile lenders as per the RTL Agreement with the New Lenders. The key features of the RTL 
Agreement are as follows:
	
i.	
Sanction of facilities (including non-fund based facilities) of ₹ 4,053 Crore from the New Lenders.
	
ii.	
Repayment of fund based Rupee Term Loan in 98 structured monthly instalments commencing from May 
2022 to June 2030 at initial interest rate of 9.50% per annum, subject to reset after 1 year;
	
iii.	
Release of LOC on retirement of respective non-fund based working capital facilities by Erstwhile Lenders;
	
iv.	
Reduction of sanctioned facilities (including non-fund based facilities) from REC of ₹ 3,553 Crore to ₹ 
2,178 Crore within 1 year from disbursement;
	
v.	
Monetization of specified assets within stipulated timelines.
	
22.2 Optionally Convertible Debentures 
	
On May 24, 2022, in terms of the Refinancing Proposal, the Company allotted 57,14,28,572 equity shares to 
erstwhile Lenders having face value of ₹ 2 each pursuant to conversion in full of entire outstanding OCD of 
410,000 having face value of ₹ 100,000 each aggregating to ₹ 4,099.18 Crore (refer Note 4). On conversion in 
full, the OCD’s got extinguished and the difference between the carrying value of OCD’s and fair value of shares 
issued on settlement date amounting to ₹ 255.38 Crore is disclosed under exceptional items.
	
22.3 Compulsory Convertible Preference Shares 
	
The CCPS were initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value as applicable on respective 
Exit Options. 
	
On May 24, 2022, in terms of the Refinancing Proposal, SGSL allotted 4,454 equity shares to Erstwhile Lenders 
having a face value of ₹10/- each pursuant to conversion in full of entire outstanding value of 445,301 CCPS 
having a face value of ₹ 100,000/- each aggregating to ₹ 4,453.01 Crore. Refer Note 4. On conversion in full, the 
CCPS got extinguished and the difference between the carrying value of CCPS and fair value of shares issued 
on settlement date amounting to ₹ 2,141.63 Crore (net of transaction cost of ₹ 124.56 Crore) is disclosed under 
exceptional items. 
	
22.4 The details of security for the current and non-current secured loans are as follows:
a.	
Financial facilities by way of RTL II from Lenders in accordance with Resolution Plan aggregating to 
₹ 1,764.65 Crore (previous year: ₹ Nil) of which ₹ 1,445.99 Crore (previous year: ₹ Nil) classified as long-
term borrowings and ₹ 318.67 Crore (previous year: ₹ Nil) classified as current maturities of long-term 
borrowings and non-fund based working capital facilities are secured by first pari-passu charge over all 
present and future current assets of each Borrower except inventories forming part of land, first pari-
passu charge over all PPE of Borrowers whether movable or immovable both present and future, first pari-
passu charge by way of assignment or creation of security interest in the project contracts, any letter of 
credit, guarantee provided by, insurance contracts and clearances related to project, first charge over all 
accounts including Trust and Retention Account (‘TRA’), first pari-passu pledge over 100% of fully paid-up 
equity capital of SPIL (since merged into SGSL), SGWPL and SGSL by SEL, negative lien over the equity 
shares held by SEL in SE Forge Limited, Non disposal undertaking or pledge over the 100% of the equity 
share capital of Suzlon Energy Limited, Mauritius (‘SELM’) and AE Rotor Holding B.V. (‘AERH’), first pari-
passu pledge over certain equity shares of SEL held by the promoters and other members of the promoter 
group, brand image of Suzlon and corporate guarantee provided by each of the Borrowers guaranteeing 
the obligations of the other Borrowers in compliance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013.
	
Financial facilities from erstwhile Lenders in accordance with Resolution Plan aggregating to ₹ Nil (previous 
year: ₹ 3,033.99 Crore) of which ₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 2,532.02 Crore) classified as long-term borrowings 
and ₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 501.97 Crore) classified as current maturities of long-term borrowings and 
non-fund based working capital facilities are secured by first pari-passu charge over all current assets of 
SEL, SGWPL, SPIL and SGL (except for certain identified assets), first pari-passu charge over all current 
assets generated under identified orders both present and future, first pari-passu charge over all current 
assets of SGSL both present and future, first pari-passu charge with new PSF Lenders on current assets 
generated under identified orders of Borrowers except SGSL in certain scenario, second charge on cash 
flows of Borrowers except SGSL arising out of identified orders which are funded by new PSF Lenders, 
first pari-passu charge over all PPE of Borrowers whether movable or immovable, first charge over Trust 
and Retention Account (‘TRA’), first charge on DSR Accounts, first pari-passu pledge over 100% of fully 
Annual Report 2022-23
332
paid-up equity capital of SGWPL and SPIL and 75% of SGL by SEL, first pari-passu pledge over 100% of 
fully paid-up equity capital of SGSL till conversion of CCPS into equity shares of SGSL, negative lien over 
the equity shares held by SEL in SE Forge Limited, Non disposal undertaking or pledge over the 100% of 
the equity share capital of Suzlon Energy Limited, Mauritius (‘SELM’) and AE Rotor Holding B.V. (‘AERH’), 
first pari-passu pledge over certain equity shares of SEL held by the promoters and other members of the 
promoter group, brand image of Suzlon and personal guarantee of Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti.
b.	
410,000 fully paid up 0.01% Secured Optionally Convertible Debentures (‘OCD’) having original face value 
of ₹ 100,000 each of Company issued to Lenders aggregating to face value of ₹ 4,100.00 Crore having 
outstanding face value of ₹ Nil and fair value of ₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 757.75 Crore) of which ₹ Nil (previous 
year: ₹ 757.34 Crore) classified as long-term borrowings and ₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 0.41 Crore) classified 
as current maturities of long-term borrowings are secured by security as specified above for RTL II on pari 
passu basis and corporate guarantee of SGSL, SPIL, SGWPL and SGL.
c.	
₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 165.70 Crore) classified as current portion of long-term borrowings secured by way 
of wind turbine components, proceeds from project of one of the subsidiary along with 100% pledge of its 
shares, charge on inventory and other specified assets of the subsidiary.
d.	
₹ 63.00 Crore (previous year: ₹ 91.50 Crore) of which ₹ 63.00 Crore (previous year: ₹ Nil) classified as 
long-term borrowings and ₹ Nil (previous year: ₹ 91.50 Crore) classified as current maturities of long-
term borrowings. Working capital loans of ₹ 42.03 Crore (previous year: ₹ 26.79 Crore) secured by pari 
passu charge on all movable assets (both fixed and current assets) and immovable assets of one of the 
subsidiaries. It is also secured by personal guarantee of one of the directors of the said subsidiary and 
personal guarantee of managing director of the Company
22.5	STG has non-fund based facilities from banks on the basis of security of current assets shared on pari passu 
basis with New Lenders.
	
22.6	Foreign currency convertible bonds (FCCBs)
	
On August 17, 2020, the Company had issued 112,285 FCCBs due for conversion in August 2032 having a face 
value of USD 320 each aggregating to a principal amount of USD 35,931,200 at an initial conversion price of ₹ 
2.61 with a fixed rate of exchange on conversion of ₹ 74.8464 per USD bearing. These FCCB’s carry a coupon 
of 4.00% per annum of which 1.25% shall be paid semi-annually and balance 2.75% shall be accrued and added 
to the principal value of the Bonds.
	
These FCCBs are recognised as compound financial instruments that consist of financial liability and equity 
since the Company has an obligation to pay interest as well as to issue predetermined number of equity shares. 
Accordingly, the financial liability component of the FCCB’s is initially recognised at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method at 5.72% and the residual portion is recognised 
in other equity.
	
Since the date of issuance, principal FCCB’s (after considering interest at 2.75%) of USD 36.301 Million have 
been converted into equity shares by March 31, 2023 and USD 529,338.11 (equivalent to ₹ 4.34 Crore) are 
outstanding and classified as current maturities of long-term borrowings as at March 31, 2023 disclosed under 
short term borrowings.
	
Subsequent to year end on May 02, 2023, the Company has redeemed the entire outstanding FCCBs at their 
principal amount aggregating to USD 529,338.11 together with accrued but unpaid interest upto the redemption 
date @ 1.25% p.a. amounting to USD 1,378.48 in accordance with terms of FCCB. Accordingly, the FCCB have 
been cancelled and delisted from The Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited. Consequent to the 
redemption, there are no outstanding FCCBs.
	
22.7	The details of repayment of borrowing are as follows :
Particulars
Year
Up to 1 year
2 to 5 years
Above 5 years
Total
Secured loans
March 31, 2023
318.67
1,392.65
116.33
1,827.65
March 31, 2022
759.58
1,283.95
2,005.41
4,048.94
Unsecured loans
March 31, 2023
26.91
8.29
-
35.20
March 31, 2022
11.75
21.65
2,281.43
2,314.83
Total
March 31, 2023
345.58
1,400.94
116.33
1,862.85
March 31, 2022
771.33
1,305.60
4,286.84
6,363.77
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
333
	
22.8	The effective rate of interest on long-term secured borrowings availed is ~ 9.50% to 10.00% p.a., availed 
in foreign currency ranges between from 4% p.a. to 6% p.a. and on short-term borrowing ranges between 
9.25% p.a. to 12.75% p.a. during the year, depending upon the prime lending rate of the banks and financial 
institutions at the time of borrowing, wherever applicable, and the interest rate spread agreed with the banks.
	
	
Borrowing are disclosed at amortised cost except for ccps which was disclosed at FVTPL.
23.	 Other financial liabilities
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Non-current
Other liabilities
19.46
21.67
Total
19.46
21.67
Current
Interest accrued on borrowings
0.01
63.27
Other liabilities$
201.54
299.99
Total
201.55
363.26
$ Other liabilities include claim payables, provision for employee payables and advances. 
All the financial liabilities are disclosed at amortised cost.
24.	 Provisions
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Non-current
Employee benefits 
54.81
40.24
Provision for maintenance and warranty 
113.37
90.19
Total
168.18
130.43
Current
Employee benefits
35.70
32.70
Provision for performance guarantee, operation, maintenance and warranty 
and liquidated damages
533.39
450.91
Total
569.09
483.61
	
In pursuance of Ind AS 37 - ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, the provisions required have 
been incorporated in the books of account in the following manner:
Particulars
Performance 
guarantee
Operation, 
maintenance 
and warranty
Liquidated 
damages
Total
Opening balance
107.54
231.99
201.57
541.10
(146.54)
(224.83)
(174.39)
(545.76)
Additions/ (release), net 
104.53
101.08
59.82
265.43
(103.12)
(157.21)
(68.73)
(329.06)
Unwinding of warranty discounting and deferral 
of O & M
-
-0.98
-
-0.98
(-)
(-1.58)
(-)
(-1.58)
Utilisation
58.68
59.20
10.29
128.17
(110.80)
(148.34)
(19.89)
(279.03)
Reversal
1.30
4.11
25.21
30.62
(31.32)
(0.13)
(21.66)
(53.11)
Closing balance
152.09
268.78
225.89
646.76
(107.54)
(231.99)
(201.57)
(541.10)
Non-current
-
113.37
-
113.37
Current
152.09
155.41
225.89
533.39
	
Figures in the brackets represents previous year.
Annual Report 2022-23
334
	
Performance guarantee ('PG') represents the expected outflow of resources against claims for performance 
shortfall expected in future over the life of the guarantee assured. The period of performance guarantee varies for 
each customer according to the terms of contract. The key assumptions in arriving at the performance guarantee 
provisions are wind velocity, plant load factor, grid availability, load shedding, historical data, wind variation 
factor etc.
	
Operation, maintenance and warranty represents the expected liability on account of field failure of parts of WTG 
and expected expenditure of servicing the WTGs over the period of free operation, maintenance and warranty, 
which varies according to the terms of each sales contract.
	
Liquidated damages ('LD') represents the expected claims which the Group may need to pay for non-fulfilment of 
certain commitments as per the terms of the respective sales / purchase contracts. These are determined on a case 
to case basis considering the dynamics of each sales order and the factors relevant to that sale.
	
The figures shown against ‘Utilisation’ represent withdrawal from provisions credited to statement of profit and loss 
to offset the expenditure incurred during the year and debited to statement of profit and loss.
25.	 Other liabilities
	
Non-current – It includes deferred revenue of ₹ 0.48 Crore (previous year: ₹ 0.19 Crore).
Current
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Statutory dues
50.56
52.12
Deferred revenue
-
0.65
Other liabilities
7.57
28.27
Total
58.13
81.04
26.	 Trade payables
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Trade payables to related parties
14.67
15.19
Trade payables to others
879.97
1,825.30
Total
894.64
1,840.49
	
Trade payables are disclosed at amortised cost.
	
26.1	Ageing schedule for trade payables
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues
Outstanding from due date of payment
< 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 
years
> 3 years
Total
As on March 31, 2023
Undisputed dues of creditors 
171.58
579.81
7.37
15.46
119.87
894.09
Disputed dues of creditors
-
-
-
-
0.55
0.55
Total
171.58
579.81
7.37
15.46
120.42
894.64
As on March 31, 2022
Undisputed dues of creditors 
65.84
1,546.63
41.53
78.25
107.56
1,839.81
Disputed dues of creditors
-
0.12
0.01
-
0.55
0.68
Total
65.84
1,546.75
41.54
78.25
108.11
 1,840.49
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
335
	
26.2 Relationship with struck off companies
Name of struck off company
Nature of  
transactions
Transactions  
during the year ended
 Balance  
outstanding as at
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Inam Engineering Pvt Ltd
Payable
-
- 
-
 0.10 
None
Sunhertz Power & 
Infrastructures
-
- 
0.00*
0.00*
Shakun & Company Services Pvt 
Ltd.
Services taken
-
 0.00* 
-
 - 
CAS Weighing India Pvt Ltd
Purchase of goods
-
 0.01 
-
 - 
SEW-Eurodrive India Pvt Ltd
-
 0.02 
-
 - 
Sumitron Exports Pvt. Ltd
0.06
0.16
0.03
0.03
Sumitron Exports Pvt. Ltd
Advances given
0.06
-
0.03
-
Mita- Teknik Technology Pvt 
Ltd
-
-
0.08
-
Eleam Engineers Pvt. Ltd.
-
 - 
-
0.06
Avanza Epsilon Elektro Pvt. Ltd
-
 - 
0.10
0.10
	
	
*Less than ₹ 0.01 Crore
27.	 Revenue from contracts with customers
	
27.1	  Disaggregated revenue information
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Type of goods and services
Sale of wind turbines, and other spare parts
4,124.04
4,738.89
Income from operation and maintenance service
1,822.80
1,781.06
Total
5,946.84
6,519.95
Geography
India
5,639.93
6,149.37
Outside India
306.91
370.58
Total
5,946.84
6,519.95
Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time
3,804.80
4,210.05
Services transferred at a point in time/ over time
2,142.04
2,309.90
Total
5,946.84
6,519.95
	
27.2 Contract balances
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Trade receivables
1,170.44
1,376.95
Contract liabilities
573.04
477.25
	
	
Refer Note 12.2 for movement in allowance for expected credit loss.
Annual Report 2022-23
336
	
27.3	Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the statement of profit and loss with the contracted 
price
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Revenue as per contracted price
6,084.76
6,638.87
Less: Variable considerations
Liquidated damages (refer Note 24)
(34.61)
(47.07)
Performance guarantee (refer Note 24)
(103.23)
(71.80)
Sales commission
(0.08)
(0.05)
Total
5,946.84
6,519.95
	
27.4 Performance obligation
	
	
Information about the Group’s performance obligations are summarised below:
	
	
WTG equipment
	
	
The performance obligation is satisfied upon dispatch of the equipment and payment is generally due within 
30 to 45 days from completion of contract milestone. Standard warranty period beyond fixing the defects that 
existed at the time of sale is provided to customers. The warranty is accounted for as a separate performance 
obligation and a portion of transaction price is allocated. The performance obligation for the warranty service 
is satisfied over the standard period on time elapsed.
	
	
Project services
	
	
Project services includes civil foundation, electrical, installation and commissioning of WTG’s. The performance 
obligation is satisfied over-time and payment is generally due upon completion of milestone. 
	
	
Power evacuation infrastructure facilities
	
	
The performance obligation is satisfied upon commissioning and electrical installation of the WTG to the said 
facilities followed by approval for commissioning of WTG from the concerned authorities.
	
	
Land revenue
	
In case of leasehold, the performance obligation is satisfied upon the transfer of leasehold rights to the 
customers, for outright sale, the performance obligation is satisfied when title of land is transferred to the 
customer as per the terms of the respective sales order. The performance obligation for land development is 
satisfied upon rendering of the service as per the terms of the respective sales order.
	
	
Operation and maintenance income
	
The performance obligation is satisfied over-time and payment is due within 30 days from invoice date which 
is raised as per contractual agreement.
28.	 Other income
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Interest income on
	
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
	
	
on inter corporate deposit
-
1.62
	
	
on deposits with banks
11.26
10.65
	
	
on other financial assets
8.04
9.50
	
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
0.33
0.42
Total
19.63
22.19
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
337
29.	 Cost of raw materials, components consumed and services rendered
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Consumption of raw materials
Opening inventory
1,095.93
819.88
Add: Purchases
3,401.63
4,368.00
4,497.56
5,187.88
Less: Closing inventory
870.80
1,095.93
3,626.76
4,091.95
Changes in inventories:
Opening inventory
Finished, semi-finished goods and work- in- progress
843.87
1,079.74
Land and land lease rights
103.55
107.29
(A)
947.42
1,187.03
Closing inventory
Finished, semi-finished goods and work- in- progress
711.33
843.87
Land and land lease rights
80.19
103.55
(B)
791.52
947.42
(C) = (A) - (B)
155.90
239.61
30.	 Employee benefits expense
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Salaries, wages, allowances and bonus 
543.36
488.31
Contribution to provident fund and other funds*
35.29
31.40
Staff welfare expenses
30.57
25.65
Total
609.22
545.36
	
* Includes gratuity expense of ₹ 11.51 Crore (previous year: ₹ 9.78 Crore).
31.	 Finance costs
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Interest expense on 
	
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 
339.60
441.49
	
Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL
42.61
260.63
	
Unwinding interest on long-term provisions
0.76
0.45
Bank charges
37.79
31.90
Exchange difference to the extent considered as an adjustment to borrowing 
cost
-
0.05
Total
420.76
734.52
Annual Report 2022-23
338
32.	 Depreciation and amortisation expenses (including impairment losses)
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment (refer Note 6)
140.17
119.32
Amortisation of intangible assets (refer Note 7)
96.17
109.37
Amortisation of goodwill (refer Note 7)
-
7.63
Depreciation on investment properties (refer Note 9)
1.65
1.63
Amortisation of right-of-use assets (refer Note 39)
21.69
21.89
Total
259.68
259.84
33.	 Other expenses
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Stores and spares consumed
89.54
88.92
Power and fuel
61.54
57.59
Factory and site expenses
66.72
65.27
Repairs and maintenance
36.75
33.35
Operation and maintenance charges 
1.24
0.37
Rent
23.50
24.91
Rates and taxes
15.71
9.21
Operation, maintenance and warranty expenditure (refer Note 24)
95.22
155.12
R&D, certification, product development and quality assurance expenses
7.23
4.13
Insurance 
20.26
19.61
Advertisement and sales promotion 
3.22
1.49
Freight outward and packing expenses
14.65
67.30
Travelling, conveyance and vehicle expenses
86.44
67.00
Communication expenses
8.30
8.27
Auditors' remuneration and expenses 
2.38
2.77
Consultancy charges
50.28
43.52
CSR, charity and donations
3.55
5.41
Outsource manpower cost
60.44
55.16
Miscellaneous expenses
85.92
85.52
Exchange differences, net
6.85
(61.17)
Bad debts written off
15.58
26.95
Allowance/ (reversal) for doubtful debts and advances, net
(9.87)
26.69
Capital work-in-progress written off
-
17.49
Gain on sale of investment
(0.10)
-
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, net
1.38
10.53
Total
746.73
815.41
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
339
34.	 Exceptional items
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Difference on de-recognition as a result of conversion in full of OCD and CCPS, 
net off transaction cost (refer Note 4, 22.2 and 22.3)
(2,397.01)
-
Gain on de-recognition of assets and liabilities (refer Note a below)
(215.41)
(72.45)
Gain on divestment of a joint venture (refer Note b below)
(37.34)
-
Gain on sale of a subsidiary (refer Note c below)
(15.18)
(10.67)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (refer Note d below)
(55.66)
-
Total
(2,720.60)
(83.12)
a.	
Seventus LLC (‘Seventus’), step down subsidiary of the Group based in USA stands dissolved as on March 31, 
2023. Accordingly, on loss of control, the amount of ₹ 215.41 Crore on de-recognition of assets and liabilities is 
transferred to statement of profit and loss and disclosed under exceptional items in the consolidated financial 
statements.
	
On June 29, 2021, Suzlon Wind Energy Corporation filed for voluntary bankruptcy liquidation under Chapter 
7 of the US Bankruptcy Code. Accordingly, on loss of control, the amount of ₹ 47.38 Crore on de-recognition 
of assets and liabilities and ₹ 25.07 Crore towards release of foreign exchange gain from OCI is transferred to 
statement of profit and loss and disclosed under exceptional items in the consolidated financial statements for 
the year ended March 31, 2022.
b.	
On April 07, 2022, Suzlon Generators Limited (‘SGL’) ceased to be a joint venture of Suzlon Energy Limited 
(SEL) pursuant to divestment of SEL’s 75% stake in SGL to Voith Turbo Private Limited and accordingly gain on 
loss of control is disclosed under exceptional items.
c.	
As at March 31, 2023, Suzlon Wind Energy BH D.O., Bosnia ceased to be a subsidiary of the Group pursuant to 
divestment of its 100% stake and accordingly gain on loss of control is disclosed under exceptional items.
	
During the financial year ended March 31, 2022, Suzlon Wind Energy Espana, Spain S.L., a step down wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Company realised ₹ 10.67 Crore towards balance consideration for sale of project 
development company, Parque Eolico El Almendro S.L., Spain, made during the financial year ended March 31, 
2020 which was contingent upon completion of milestone.
d.	
The Group has disposed property, plant and equipment of one of its plant and a freehold land for a consideration 
of ₹ 45.63 Crore and ₹ 38.25 Crore respectively and gain on its disposal is disclosed under exceptional items. 
35.	 Income tax
	
35.1	 Components of income tax expense
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Current tax
4.61
184.07
Deferred tax
(0.19)
(17.48)
Total
4.42
166.59
Annual Report 2022-23
340
	
35.2 Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Accounting profit before income tax
2,891.71
0.40
Enacted tax rates in India
25.168%
25.168%
Computed tax expense
727.79
0.10
Non-deductible expenses for tax purpose
325.34
338.23
Deductible expenses for tax purpose
(992.52)
(59.25)
Expense taxable at different rates
(16.69)
2.23
Adjustments in respect of income tax of previous years
-
(0.09)
Charge relating to temporary differences (net)
-
(17.48)
Unused tax losses 
(20.31)
(65.90)
Effect of unrecognized deferred tax assets
126.91
-
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 
(146.10)
(31.25)
Tax expense as per statement of profit or loss
4.42
166.59
	
35.3	 Details of carry forward losses, material disputes and unused credit on which no deferred tax asset is 
recognised by the Group are as follows:
	
The unabsorbed depreciation is available for offsetting all future taxable profits of the Company and can be 
carried forward indefinitely. The business losses and capital loss of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries 
can be carried forward for 8 years from the year in which losses arose. Majority of these business losses and 
capital losses, to the extent remaining unutilized will expire between FY 2024-25 to FY 2027-28. There shall be 
no impact of the carry forward losses in the consolidated financial statement as no DTA is recognised on these 
losses due to absence of reasonable certainty about taxable income that would arise in future that could be 
set off against the unabsorbed losses within the prescribed time period. 
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Business losses (including interest loss)
4,031.93
9,708.16
Unabsorbed depreciation
2,567.52
1,585.95
Capital losses
2,532.68
2,403.50
Total
9,132.13
13,697.61
	
SGSL, a subsidiary of the Company received notice u/s. 148 of the Act for FY 2015-16 for reassessment against 
which the subsidiary has preferred a writ which has been admitted by the Hon’ble Gujarat High Court and stay 
has been granted on passing of any final order.
36.	 Components of other comprehensive income (OCI)
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Re-measurement of the defined benefit plans
(9.22)
3.28
Share of other comprehensive income of joint venture accounted for using the 
equity method
-
0.05
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
(25.66)
(85.16)
Total
(34.88)
(81.83)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
341
37.	 Earnings / (loss) per equity share (EPS)
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Basic 
Net profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 
2,849.01
(199.59)
Weighted average number of equity shares
10,775,250,532
9,291,606,924
Basic earnings / (loss) per share of ₹ 2 each 
2.64
(0.21)
Diluted
Net profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent
2,849.01
(199.59)
Add: Interest on foreign currency convertible bonds (net of tax)
-
0.33
Adjusted net profit/ (loss) after tax
2,849.01
(199.26)
Weighted average number of equity shares for basic EPS
10,775,250,532
9,291,606,924
Add: Effect of dilution:
Foreign currency convertible bonds
-
386,356,678
Share warrants
-
498,588,439
Weighted average number of equity shares adjusted for diluted EPS
10,775,250,532
10,176,552,041
Diluted earnings/ (loss) per share (₹) of face value of ₹ 2 each 
2.64
(0.21)*
	
* Adjusted retrospectively for the bonus element in respect of the Right issue made during the year ended March 31, 2023.
	
Since the earnings / (loss) per share computation based on diluted weighted average number of shares is anti-
dilutive, the basic and diluted earnings / (loss) per share is the same.
38.	 Post-employment benefit plans
	
Defined contribution plan:
	
During the year the Group has recognised ₹ 19.43 Crore (previous year: ₹ 17.68 Crore) in the statement of profit and 
loss towards defined contribution plans as detailed in Note 3.4 (q)(ii)(A).
	
The Group manages provident fund plan for its employees which is permitted under the Employees’ Provident 
Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. The plan mandates contribution by employer at a fixed percentage 
of employee’s salary. Employees also contribute to the plan at a fixed percentage of their salary as a minimum 
contribution and additional sums at their discretion. The plan guarantees interest at the rate notified by Employees’ 
Provident Fund Organisation. The contribution by employer and employee together with interest are payable at the 
time of separation from service or retirement whichever is earlier. The benefit under this plan vests immediately on 
rendering of service.
	
The Superannuation scheme of the Group has the form of a trust and is governed by the Board of Trustees. The 
scheme is partially funded with an insurance company in the form of a qualifying insurance policy.
	
Defined benefit plan:
	
The Group has a defined benefit gratuity plan. The gratuity plan is governed by the payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. 
Under the act, employee who has completed five years of service is eligible for gratuity. Gratuity is computed based 
on 15 days salary based on last drawn salary for each completed year of service. The fund has the form of a trust 
and is governed by the Board of Trustees. The scheme is partially funded with an insurance company in the form of 
a qualifying insurance policy.
Annual Report 2022-23
342
	
38.1	 Net defined benefits expense recognised in statement of profit and loss and OCI:
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Current service cost
7.91
7.29
Net interest cost
2.59
2.38
Total expense recognised in statement of profit and loss
10.50
9.67
Re-measurement for the period - obligation (gain)/ loss
9.77
(3.85)
Re-measurement for the period - plan assets (gain)/ loss
(0.55)
0.57
Total expenses recognised in OCI
9.22
(3.28)
Total
19.72
6.39
	
38.2	Changes in the defined benefit obligation:
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Opening defined benefit obligation 
75.28
71.88
Current service cost
7.91
7.29
Interest cost
5.12
4.61
Benefits paid
(10.63)
(4.79)
Acquisition adjustment / settlement cost
-
0.14
Re-measurement adjustment:
Experience adjustment
6.39
(1.24)
Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic assumptions
0.86
(0.18)
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
2.52
(2.43)
Closing defined benefit obligation
87.45
75.28
	
38.3	Changes in the fair value of plan assets:
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Opening fair value of plan assets
38.50
34.74
Interest income
2.53
2.23
Contributions by employer towards approved fund
5.13
6.75
Benefits paid
(10.63)
(4.79)
Acquisition adjustments / settlement cost
-
0.14
Re-measurement adjustment:
Experience adjustments
-
-
Re-measurements - return on plan assets, excluding amount recognised 
in net interest expense
0.55
(0.57)
Closing fair value of plan assets
36.08
38.50
	
38.4	Funds managed by insurer is 100% for March 31, 2023 (previous year: 100%). The composition of investments 
in respect of funded defined benefit plans are not available with the Group, the same has not been disclosed.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
343
	
38.5	Net asset/ (liability) recognised in the balance sheet:
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Current portion 
7.12
9.56
Non-current portion 
80.33
65.72
Present value of defined benefit obligation as at the end of the financial 
year
87.45
75.28
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
36.08
38.50
Net asset/ (liability) recognised in the balance sheet 
(51.37)
(36.78)
	
38.6	Principal assumptions used in determining long term employee benefits:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Discount rate (in %)
7.40
6.80
Future salary increases (in %)
9%
8%
Life expectation (in years)
8.51
7.75
Attrition rate 
25.60 % at 
younger ages 
and reducing to 
6.20 % at older 
ages according to 
graduated scales.
21.50 % at 
younger ages 
and reducing to 
6.80 % at older 
ages according to 
graduated scales.
	
	
During the year, the Group, reassessed the actuarial assumption for attrition rate based on trend of attrition.
	
38.7	Quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption:
Particulars
 March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Discount rate (- / + 1%)
5.58
(5.15)
4.80
(4.48)
Future salary increases (- / + 1%)
(5.13)
5.46
(4.47)
4.71
Attrition rate (- / + 50% of attrition rates)
2.49
(2.49)
2.08
(2.14)
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2024, the Group expects to contribute ₹ 59.55 Crore (previous year: ₹ 43.96 
Crore) towards its defined benefit plan.
39.	 Leases
	
39.1	Group as a lessee
	
The Group has lease contracts for land and buildings used in its operations. Leases of land, plant and machinery 
generally have lease terms between 3 and 10 years. The Group’s obligations under its leases are secured by 
the lessor’s title to the leased assets. Generally, the Group is restricted from assigning and subleasing the 
leased assets. The Group also has certain leases of premises with lease terms of 12 months or less and with 
low value. The Group applies the ‘short-term lease’ and ‘lease of low-value assets’ recognition exemptions for 
these leases.
Annual Report 2022-23
344
	
	
a.	
The movement in ROU assets during the year and carrying value are as follows:
ROU asset category
Land
Buildings
Vehicles
Total
Cost
Balance as of April 1, 2022
191.67
6.14
7.08
204.89
Additions
-
-
9.96
9.96
Translation adjustment
-
(0.17)
(0.24)
(0.41)
Deductions/ adjustments 
(63.92)
-
-
(63.92)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
127.75
5.97
16.80
150.52
Balance as of April 1, 2021
168.92
4.63
6.96
180.51
Additions
22.75
1.44
-
24.19
Translation adjustment
-
0.07
0.12
0.19
Deductions/ adjustments
-
-
-
-
Balance as at March 31, 2022
191.67
6.14
7.08
204.89
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of April 1, 2022
61.05
3.89
6.12
71.06
Additions (including impairment)
18.21
1.09
2.39
21.69
Translation adjustment
-
(0.11)
(0.21)
(0.32)
Deductions/ adjustments
(24.02)
-
-
(24.02)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
55.24
4.87
8.30
68.41
Balance as of April 1, 2021
42.46
2.59
4.00
49.05
Additions (including impairment)
18.59
1.26
2.04
21.89
Translation adjustment
-
0.04
0.08
0.12
Deductions/ adjustments
-
-
-
-
Balance as at March 31, 2022
61.05
3.89
6.12
71.06
Net balance as at March 31, 2023
72.51
1.10
8.50
82.11
Net balance as at March 31, 2022
130.62
2.25
0.96
133.83
	
	
b.	
The movement in lease liabilities during the year are as follows:
Particulars
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Opening balance
74.66
66.71
Additions
9.96
24.19
Deletions
(33.06)
-
Translation adjustment
(0.09)
0.08
Finance cost accrued during the year
5.99
8.11
Payment of lease liabilities
(24.42)
(24.43)
Closing balance
33.04
74.66
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
345
	
	
c.	
The following are the amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss:
Particulars
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Depreciation expense on right-of-use assets
21.69
21.89
Translation adjustment
(0.09)
0.12
Interest expense on lease liabilities
5.99
8.11
Rental expense for short-term leases (under other expenses)
23.50
24.91
Total 
51.09
55.03
	
	
d.	
Details of contractual maturities of lease liabilities are as follows:
Particulars
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Not later than one year
14.98
17.12
Later than one year and not later than five years
18.06
27.09
Later than five years
-
30.45
Total
33.04
74.66
	
	
	
The effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 9.00% with maturity between 2024 and 2025.
	
	
During the year, the Group had total cash outflows for leases of ₹ 47.92 Crore (previous year: ₹ 49.34 
Crore). The Group also had non-cash additions to ROU assets and lease liabilities of ₹ 9.96 Crore (previous 
year: ₹ 24.19 Crore).
	
39.2 Company as a lessor
	
The Group has entered into operating leases on its investment property portfolio consisting of certain office 
premises (see Note 9). These leases have terms between two to ten years. All leases include a clause to enable 
upward revision of the rental charge on an annual basis according to prevailing market conditions. Rental 
income recognised by the Group during the year is ₹ 8.88 Crore (previous year: ₹ 9.22 Crore).
	
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases as at year-end are as follows:
Particulars
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Not later than one year
0.94
0.86
Later than one year and not later than five years
3.13
3.89
Later than five years
-
-
Total
4.07
4.75
40.	 Capital commitments
	
Estimated amount of contract remaining to be executed on capital accounts and not provided for, net of advances 
stands at ₹ 18.79 Crore (previous year: ₹ 26.74 Crore).
41.	 Contingent liabilities 
 March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts
Customs duty, service tax and state levies* 
188.12
155.87
Labour related
0.20
0.28
Others 
3.38
2.85
Total
191.70
159.00
	
* includes demand from tax authorities for various matters. The Group / tax department has preferred appeals on these matters 
and the same are pending with various appellate authorities. Considering the facts of the matters, no provision is considered 
necessary by management.
	
The Company has received a SCN from SEBI and has responded to the SCN denying the allegations and filed a 
settlement application in accordance the SEBI Settlement Regulations (refer Note 5).
Annual Report 2022-23
346
	
A few law suits have been filed on the Group by some of their suppliers for disputes in fulfilment of obligations as 
per supply agreements. Further, few customers of the Group have disputed certain amount as receivable which 
the Group believes is contractually not payable. These matters are pending for hearing before respective courts, 
the outcome of which is uncertain. The management has provided for an amount as a matter of prudence which it 
believes shall be the probable outflow of resources.
42.	 Segment information
	
The Group’s operations relates to sale of WTG, allied activities including sale/ sub-lease of land, project execution; 
sale of foundry and forging components and O&M services. Others include power generation. Segments have been 
identified taking into account the internal reporting system and organisation structure. 
	
The Management Committee monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of 
making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated 
based on profit or loss and is measured consistently with profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements. 
Also, the Group’s financing (including finance costs and finance income) and income taxes are managed on a Group 
basis and are not allocated to operating segments. Inter-segment revenues are eliminated upon consolidation and 
reflected in the ‘adjustments and eliminations’ column.
	
Segment revenue, segment result, segment assets and segment liabilities include the respective amount identified 
to each of the segments on reasonable basis from the internal reporting system. Inter-segment transfers have been 
carried out at mutually agreed prices.
	
Interest income and costs are not allocated to individual segments as the underlying instruments are managed on 
a Group basis. Current taxes, deferred taxes and certain financial assets and liabilities are not allocated to those 
segments as they are also managed on a Group basis.
	
The accounting principles consistently used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Suzlon 
Group are consistently applied to record income and expenditure in individual segments as set out in note on 
significant accounting policies.
Particulars
March 31, 2023
Continuing operations
Elimination
Grand 
total
Sale of 
WTG 
Foundry & 
Forging
OMS
Others
Total
Total external sales
3,731.04
385.72
1,822.80
7.28
5,946.84
- 
5,946.84
Add: Inter segment sales
49.50
86.07
66.20
- 
201.77
(201.77)
- 
Segment revenue
3,780.54
471.79
1,889.00
7.28
6,148.61
(201.77)
5,946.84
Segment results before exceptional 
items
(106.32)
(3.25)
679.47
2.34
572.24
- 
572.24
Add/ (less): Items to reconcile with 
statement of profit and loss 
Add: Other income
19.63
Less: Finance costs
(420.76)
Profit before exceptional items and 
tax
171.11
Less: Exceptional loss/ (gain)
(2,720.60)
Profit before tax
2,891.71
Tax expenses
4.42
Net profit for the year
2,887.29
Segment assets
2,900.74
451.53
1,317.20
24.55
4,694.02
- 
4,694.02
Common assets
829.36
Enterprise assets
5,523.38
Segment liabilities
1,807.45
133.69
548.64
- 
2,489.78
- 
2,489.78
Common liabilities
1,934.46
Enterprise liabilities
4,424.24
Segment depreciation
189.01
44.58
23.32
2.77
259.68
- 
259.68
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
347
Particulars
March 31, 2022
Continuing operations
Elimination
Grand 
total
Sale of 
WTG 
Foundry 
& Forging
OMS
Others
Total
Total external sales
4,329.92
399.71
1,782.58
7.74
6,519.95
-
6,519.95
Add: Inter segment sales
46.48
76.99
42.45
-
165.92
(165.92)
-
Segment revenue
4,376.40
476.70
1,825.03
7.74
6,685.87
(165.92)
6,519.95
Segment results before 
exceptional items
(162.98)
33.20
756.11
3.28
629.61
-
629.61
Add/ (less): Items to reconcile 
with statement of profit and 
loss 
Add: Other income
22.19
Less: Finance costs
(734.52)
Loss before exceptional items 
and tax
(82.72)
Less: Exceptional loss/ (gain)
(83.12)
Profit before tax
0.40
Tax expenses
166.59
Profit after tax
(166.19)
Add: Share of loss of joint 
venture
(10.36)
Net loss for the year
(176.55)
Segment assets
4,058.95
516.86
1,135.09
30.88
5,741.78
-
5,741.78
Common assets
733.08
Enterprise assets
6,474.86
Segment liabilities
2,595.10
152.12
620.08
-
3,367.30
-
3,367.30
Common liabilities
6,669.37
Enterprise liabilities
10,036.67
Segment depreciation
191.16
45.99
20.40
2.29
259.84
-
259.84
	
42.1 Geographical information:
Particulars
India
Europe
USA
Others
Total
Revenue from operations
Year ended March 31, 2023
5,639.93
80.66
62.40
163.85
5,946.84
Year ended March 31, 2022
6,149.37
67.97
98.00
204.61
6,519.95
Non-current assets
As at March 31, 2023
857.73
0.40
-
14.01
872.14
As at March 31, 2022
1,069.57
1.07
0.16
8.13
1,078.93
	
The revenue disclosed in geographical information is based on the location of goods and services delivered to 
the customers. The non-current assets disclosed in geographical information consist of PPE, intangible assets, 
CWIP, intangible assets under development and investment properties.
Annual Report 2022-23
348
	
42.2 Reconciliation of assets and liabilities
 March 31, 2023
 March 31, 2022
Segment operating assets
4,694.02
5,741.78
Investment properties (refer Note 9)
29.21
30.86
Investments (refer Note 11)
0.03
0.03
Loans (refer Note 13)
0.61
0.96
Interest accrued on deposits, loans and advances (refer Note 14)
3.86
1.14
Bank balances (refer Note 14)
357.49
94.35
Cash and cash equivalents (refer Note 17)
367.30
500.43
Deferred tax assets
0.20
17.48
Current tax asset, net
0.54
1.11
Non-current tax (refer Note 15)
34.65
20.96
Assets held for sale (refer Note 18)
35.47
65.76
Total assets
5,523.38
6,474.86
Segment operating liabilities
2,489.78
3,367.30
Borrowings (refer Note 22)
1,904.88
6,390.56
Current tax liabilities, net
1.75
173.51
Interest accrued on borrowings (refer Note 23)
0.01
63.27
Other financial liabilities (refer Note 23)
27.82
42.03
Total liabilities
4,424.24
10,036.67
43.	 Related party transactions
	
43.1 List of related parties 
Associates of Suzlon Group
Refer Note 1.2
Joint ventures of Suzlon Group
Refer Note 1.3
Entities where KMP have significant influence (EKMP)
1
AspenPark Infra Vadodara Private Limited (iv)
4
Sarjan Realities Private Limited
2
SE Freight and Logistics India Private Limited 
5
Shubh Realty (South) Private Limited
3
Samanvaya Holdings Private Limited
6
Tanti Holdings Private Limited
Key Management Personnel (KMP)
1
Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti (i)
9
Mr. Himanshu Mody
2
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti (i)
10
Ms. Geetanjali S. Vaidya
3
Mr. Girish R. Tanti (i)
11
Mr. Gautam Doshi
4
Mr. Pranav T. Tanti (i)
12
Mr. Sameer Shah
5
Mr. Marc Desaedeleer
13
Mr. Hiten Timbadia
6
Mr. Per Hornung Pedersen
14
Mr. Ajay Mathur (v)
7
Mr. Ashwani Kumar (ii)
15
Ms. Seemantinee Khot
8
Mr. J. P. Chalasani (iii)
16
Mr. Rakesh Sharma (v) 
Relatives of Key Management Personnel (RKMP)
1
Ms. Rambhaben Ukabhai
3
Mr. Jitendra R. Tanti
2
Ms. Gita T. Tanti
Employee funds
1
SEL - Employees group gratuity scheme
4
SEL - Superannuation fund
2
SGWPL - Employees group gratuity scheme
5
SGWPL - Superannuation fund
3
SGSL - Employees group gratuity scheme
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
349
	
	
(i) Mr. Tulsi R. Tanti, the Founder, the Chairman & Managing Director, and one of the promoters of the Company 
passed away on 01, 2022. Consequent to the same and pursuant to the approval of the Board of Directors 
at its meeting held on 07, 2022 and approval of the shareholders at its general meeting held on, January 05, 
2023:
	
	
	
•	
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti has been appointed as the Chairman & Managing Director,
	
	
	
•	
Mr. Girish R. Tanti has been appointed as an Executive Director designated as Executive Vice 
Chairman, and
	
	
	
•	
Mr. Pranav T. Tanti has been appointed as an Additional Director.
	
	
(ii)Ceased w.e.f April 05, 2023.	
	
	
	
(iii)Appointed w.e.f. April 05, 2023.
	
	
(iv)Ceased w.e.f February 04, 2023.	
	
	
(v)Ceased w.e.f June 08, 2022.
	
43.2 Transactions between the Group and related parties during the year and the status of outstanding 
balances as at March 31, 2023:
Particulars
EKMP
JV
Associate
KMP
RKMP
Employee 
funds
Subscription to equity shares of the 
Company under Right Issue
112.83
-
-
0.10
61.08
-
 (-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Loan given
-
-
-
-
-
-
 (-)
 (53.93)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Realisation of loan given
-
-
-
-
-
-
 (-)
 (75.65)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Purchase of goods and services including 
reimbursement
7.77
-
-
-
-
-
(53.69)
 (139.13)
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
Sale of goods and services 
1.89
0.71
-
0.48
0.72
-
 (15.89)
(54.34)
 (-) 
(0.64)
  (0.54)
 (-) 
Interest income
-
-
0.00*
-
-
-
 (-) 
(1.62)
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
Lease rent income
0.92
-
-
-
-
-
(1.12)
 (0.03) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
Lease rent expense
6.86
-
-
-
-
-
(6.38)
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
Managerial remuneration
-
-
-
21.23
-
-
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
(11.14)
 (-) 
 (-) 
Director sitting fees
-
-
-
0.48
0.00*
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.55)
(0.00)*
(-)
Contribution to various funds
-
-
-
-
-
5.37
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
(6.99)
Performance guarantee
0.13
-
-
-
-
-
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (0.11)
 (-)
Reimbursement of expenses receivable
-
-
-
-
-
-
 (-) 
 (0.12) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
Annual Report 2022-23
350
	
	
Outstanding balances:
Particulars
EKMP
JV Associates
KMP
RKMP Employee 
funds
Investments in equity and preference shares
-
-
54.34
-
-
-
(-)
(26.78)
(54.34)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Impairment allowance on investments
-
-
40.36
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(40.36)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Investments in Compulsorily Convertible 
Debentures
-
-
21.48
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(21.48)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Trade receivables
1.11
-
0.20
0.09
0.28
-
(1.27)
(10.62)
(0.28)
(0.24)
(0.41)
(-)
Impairment allowance on trade Receivables
-
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(4.47)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Loans given
-
-
0.01
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(0.01)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Security deposits taken
0.08
-
-
-
-
-
(0.08)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Security deposits given
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.61)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Advance to supplier and other assets
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.01)
(0.15)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Trade payables
13.28
-
1.39
-
-
-
(13.66)
(0.15)
(1.38)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Director sitting fees payable
-
-
-
0.00*
-
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.09)
(-)
(-)
	
	
* Less than ₹ 0.01 Crore
	
	
Figures in the brackets are in respect of previous year.
	
43.3 Disclosure of significant transactions with related parties
Type of transaction
Type of 
relationship
Name of the entity / person
 Year ended March 31, 
2023
2022
Loan given
JV
Suzlon Generators Limited
-
53.93
Realisation of Loan given
JV
Suzlon Generators Limited
-
75.65
Subscription to equity 
shares of the Company 
under Right Issue
RKMP
Rambhaben Ukabhai
60.62
-
EKMP
Tanti Holdings Private Limited
67.50
-
EKMP
Samanvaya Holdings Private Limited 
35.18
-
Purchase of goods 
and services including 
reimbursement
EKMP
AspenPark Infra Vadodara Private 
Limited
7.77
9.05
EKMP
SE Freight & Logistics India Private 
Limited
-
44.64
JV
Suzlon Generators Limited
-
139.13
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
351
Type of transaction
Type of 
relationship
Name of the entity / person
 Year ended March 31, 
2023
2022
Sale of goods and services 
EKMP
SE Freight and Logistics India 
Private Limited
0.56
14.81
EKMP
Tanti Holdings Private Limited
0.54
-
EKMP
Samanvaya Holdings Private Limited
0.79
-
JV
Suzlon Generators Limited
-
53.44
JV
Vayudoot Solarfarms Limited
0.71
0.90
Interest income
JV
Suzlon Generators Limited
-
1.62
Lease rent income
EKMP
Sarjan Realities Private Limited
0.92
1.12
Lease rent expenses
EKMP
Sarjan Realities Private Limited
6.70
6.38
Managerial remuneration
KMP
Mr. Tulsi R Tanti
4.62
2.11
Mr. Vinod R Tanti
5.05
2.40
Mr. Swapnil Jain
-
1.00
Mr. Ashwani Kumar
4.01
2.25
Mr. Himanshu Mody
6.93
3.03
Director sitting fees
KMP
Mr. Girish R Tanti
0.07
0.06
Mr. Rakesh Sharma
0.01
0.06
Mr. Marc Desaedeleer
0.05
0.07
Mr. Sameer Shah
0.06
0.07
Ms. Seemantinee Khot
0.06
0.07
Mr. Hiten Timbadia
0.05
0.06
Mr. Per Hornung Pedersen
0.09
0.09
Mr. Gautam Doshi
0.04
0.07
Contribution to various 
funds
Employee 
funds
Suzlon Energy Limited 
Superannuation Fund
0.20
0.09
Suzlon Energy Limited Employee 
Group Gratuity Scheme
2.32
4.34
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited 
Employee Group Gratuity Scheme
0.05
0.55
Suzlon Global Services Limited 
Employee Group Gratuity Scheme
2.80
2.00
Performance guarantee
RKMP
Rambhaben Ukabhai
0.13
0.11
Reimbursement of 
expenses receivable
JV
Suzlon Generators Limited
-
0.12
	
43.4 Compensation of key management personnel of the Group recognised as an expense during the 
financial year:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Short-term employee benefits
20.24
10.40
Post-employment gratuity 
0.99
0.73
Total 
21.23
11.13
Annual Report 2022-23
352
	
43.5 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
	
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s 
length transactions. Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash. 
There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables. Impairment 
assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and 
the market in which the related party operates.
44.	 Fair value measurements
	
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are considered to be same as their carrying values as on March 
31, 2023. Since the CCPS issued by SGSL have been extinguished during the year, the disclosure on inputs to 
valuation is not applicable. 
45.	 Fair value hierarchy
	
There are no transfers between level 1, level 2 and level 3 during the year and earlier comparative periods. The 
Group’s policy is to recognise transfers into and transfers out of fair value hierarchy levels as at the end of the 
financial year.
	
45.1 Fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at Level 3:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Financial assets
Investments at fair value through profit and loss:
Investment in Saraswat Co-operative Bank Ltd.
0.01
0.01 
Investment in government securities
0.02
0.02 
 
0.03
0.03
Financial liabilities
Borrowings at fair value through profit and loss:
Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares (refer Note 22.3)
-
2,223.58
-
2,223.58
	
45.2 Reconciliation of financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Borrowings
Opening balance
2,223.58
1,962.95
Addition during the year
-
-
Finance cost recognised in statement of profit and loss 
42.61
260.63
Extinguishment of liability during the year
(2,266.19)
-
Closing balance
-
2,223.58
46.	 Financial risk management
	
The Group’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other 
liabilities. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group’s principal 
financial assets include investments, trade and other assets, and cash and cash equivalents that the Group derive 
directly from its operations. The Group also enters into derivative transactions.
	
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk which may adversely impact the fair value of its 
financial instruments. The Company has constituted an internal Risk Management Committee (‘RMC’), which is 
responsible for developing and monitoring the Group’s risk management framework. The focus of the RMC is that 
the Group's financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are 
identified, measured and managed in accordance with the Group's policies and risk objectives. It is the Group's 
policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes may be undertaken. The Risk Management Policy is 
approved by the Board of Directors of the Company. 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
353
	
46.1 Market risk
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market prices. 
	
Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and other price risk, such 
as commodity risk. The Group’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of interest risk and foreign 
currency risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings, deposits and 
derivative financial instruments.
	
The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as at March 31, 2023 and 
March 31, 2022.
	
	
a.	
Interest rate risk
	
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate 
because of changes in market interest rates
	
	
b.	
Foreign currency risk and sensitivity
	
	
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because 
of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange 
rates relates primarily to the Group’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in a 
foreign currency) and the Group’s borrowings and investments in foreign currency.
	
	
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk as at the end of the financial year expressed in ` Crore are 
as follows:
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
USD
EURO
Others
USD
EURO
Others
Financial assets
 
 
 
Loans
291.07
778.34
-
26.28
721.81
-
Investments
-
-
-
75.59
-
-
Trade receivables
87.30
9.88
73.49
346.92
33.24
84.87
Bank balances
-
-
-
-
-
0.96
Other assets
25.10
24.95
22.92
25.16
22.09
23.49
Total
403.47
813.17
96.41
473.95
777.14
109.32
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
38.26
28.45
-
113.60
35.10
-
Trade payable
365.81
47.51
61.00
428.37
65.40
67.84
Other liabilities
4,744.47
3.76
11.52
4,365.07
3.65
10.71
Total
5,148.54
79.72
72.52
4,907.04
104.15
78.55
	
	
	
Foreign currency sensitivity
	
	
	
The Group’s currency exposures in respect of monetary items at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 
that result in net currency gains and losses in the income statement and equity arise principally from 
movement in US Dollar and EURO exchange rates.
	
	
	
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD and EURO 
exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes 
for all other currencies i.e Australian Dollar, Great Britain Pound, Danish Kroner etc. is not material. 
Currency
Change in
currency rate
Effect on profit before tax and equity
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
USD
+5%
(214.87)
(197.43)
USD
-5%
214.87
197.43
EURO
+5%
37.13
34.13
EURO
-5%
(37.13)
(34.13)
Annual Report 2022-23
354
	
46.2 Credit risk
	
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counter-party fails to meet its contractual 
obligations. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from 
its financing activities (primarily loans). The Group consistently monitors the financial health of its customers, 
progress under its contracts and sales proceeds are being realised as per the milestone payment terms agreed 
to minimise the loss due to defaults or insolvency of the customer. Progressive liquidity management is being 
followed to de-risk the Group from any non-fulfilment of its liabilities to various creditors, statutory obligations, 
or any stakeholders.
	
	
a.	
Trade receivables
	
	
The Group’s exposure to trade receivables is limited due to diversified customer base. The Group 
consistently monitors progress under its contracts customers and sales proceeds are being realised 
as per the milestone payment terms agreed to minimise the loss due to defaults or insolvency of 
the customer.
	
	
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients. In 
addition, a large number of minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for 
impairment collectively. 
	
	
Refer Note 2.4(s) for accounting policy on financial instruments.
	
	
b.	
Financial instruments
	
	
Financial instruments that are subject to concentrations of credit risk primarily consist of cash and cash 
equivalents, term deposit with banks, investment in mutual funds, and other financial assets. Investments 
of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned.
	
	
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk as at March 31, 2023 and as at March 31, 2022 is the 
carrying value of each class of financial assets.
	
46.3 Liquidity risk
	
	
Liquidity risk refers to that risk where the Group cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity 
risk management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirement. 
In doing this, management considers both normal and stressed conditions. The Group manages liquidity risk 
by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities by continuously monitoring cash flow forecast and by 
matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. 
	
	
The table below summarises the contractual maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on 
contractual undiscounted payment:
On 
demand
Up to 
1 year
2-5
years
> 5 years
Total
Year ended March 31, 2023
Borrowings
42.03
345.58
1,400.94
116.33
1,904.88
Lease liabilities
-
14.98
18.06
-
33.04
Other financial liabilities
-
201.55
19.46
-
221.01
Trade payables
-
894.64
-
-
894.64
Total
42.03
1,456.75
1,438.46
116.33
3,053.57
Year ended March 31, 2022
Borrowings 
192.49
605.63
1,305.60
4,286.84
6,390.56
Lease liabilities
-
17.12
27.09
30.45
74.66
Other financial liabilities
-
363.26
21.67
-
384.93
Trade payables
-
1,840.49
-
-
1,840.49
Total
192.49
2,826.50
1,354.36
4,317.29
8,690.64
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
355
47.	 Disclosure required under Sec 186(4) of the Companies Act, 2013
	
For details of investments made refer Note 11.
48.	 Ratios and its elements
Ratio
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
% change
Current ratio(ii)
Current assets/ Current liabilities
1.55
1.20
28.81
Debt - Equity ratio(iii) 
Total debt/ Shareholders equity
1.73
(1.79)
196.59
Debt service coverage ratio(iv)
EBITDA (excluding non-cash expenses)/ Interest + principal 
repayments
0.52
0.87
(39.98)
Return on Equity ratio(iii) 
Net profit after tax - Preference dividend (if any)/ Equity 
shareholder's funds * 100 
262.69
4.96
5,199.57
Inventory turnover ratio(i)
Sales/ average inventory
2.95
2.98
(0.98)
Trade receivables turnover ratio(i)
Sales/ average receivables
4.67
5.08
(8.10)
Trade payable turnover ratio(i)
Net credit purchases/ average payables
3.02
3.02
0.20
Net capital turnover ratio(ii)
Sales (includes only revenue from operation and other 
operating income)/ Working capital = current assets - 
current liabilities
4.04
7.74
(47.76)
Net profit ratio (%)(iii)
Net profit before exceptional items/ Sales
2.80%
(3.98)%
170.38
Return on capital employed (%)(ii)
Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)/ Capital employed 
= total assets - current liabilities
20.27%
28.10%
(27.86)
Return on investment (%)(v)
Finance income/ Investment
5.53%
16.31%
(66.07)
	
Reasons for variance
(i)	
There is no significant change (i.e. change of more than 25% as compared to the immediately previous financial 
year) in the key financial ratios.
(ii)	
Retirement of trade payables and reduction in current maturities of borrowings has resulted into better current 
ratio but reduction in return on capital employed ratio and net capital turnover ratio.
(iii)	
During the year, pursuant to refinancing of debt, borrowings have gone down substantially and thereby 
reduction in finance cost, resulting in improvement of certain ratios.
(iv)	
Due to payment of substantial amount of debt the ratio doesn’t show improvement.
(v)	
While there is marginal increase in interest income as compared to last year, however few fixed deposits were 
placed at the end of the year, hence the ratio doesn’t show improvement. 
Annual Report 2022-23
356
49.	 Other information
a.	
On December 03, 2022, Vayudoot Solarfarms Limited ('VSL') ceased to be a joint venture of the Company 
persuant to divestment of SEL's 51.04% stake in VSL to Aries Renewable Private Limited for a consideration of 
₹ 14.23 Crore.
b.	
The Group do not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the 
Group for holding any Benami property.
c.	
The Group do not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.
d.	
The Group have not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
e.	
The Group have not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall
i.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
ii.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
f.	
The Group have not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (funding 
party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall
	
i.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
ii.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
g.	
The Group have not any such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been 
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 
(such as, search or survey).
h.	
The current liabilities of the Company in standalone financial statements exceed current assets by ₹ 401.63 
Crores as at March 31, 2023. Further, as per the terms of the RTL Agreement, STG need to fulfil certain 
obligations, failing which it could trigger an event of default within next 12 months from reporting date. The 
Management is confident of meeting the obligations in the foreseeable future through various options including 
execution of the orders in hand, future business plans, seeking additional facilities and proposing extension 
for monetisation of specified assets, if require. Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2023 have been prepared on the basis that the Group will continue as a going concern.
i.	
During the year, Suzlon Global Services Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company implemented 
a Scheme of Amalgamation of SPIL (‘Scheme 1’) and (ii) the Scheme of Arrangement involving transfer and 
vesting of Project Execution Business (‘Demerged Undertaking I’) and Power Evacuation Business (‘Demerged 
Undertaking II’) (‘Scheme 2’) of SGWPL into the Company. Certified copy of the Orders in connection with 
amalgamation and arrangement of certain subsidiaries, issued by the respective NCLT were filed with the 
Registrar of Companies on September 29, 2022. The amalgamation and arrangement is in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 230 to 232 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
Rules made thereunder. The amalgamation and arrangement is among the entities forming part of the Group 
under common control and accordingly the accounting of the same is made in accordance with Ind AS 103 – 
‘Business Combinations’ and other accounting principles prescribed under relevant Ind AS. The Schemes have 
no impact on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
357
50.	 Capital management
	
For the purpose of the Group’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital, share premium and all 
other equity reserves attributable to the equity holders of the parent. The primary objective of the Group’s capital 
management is to maximise shareholder value.
	
The capital structure of the Group is based on the management’s judgement of its strategic and day-to-day needs 
with a focus on total equity so as to maintain investor, creditors and market confidence. The calculation of the capital 
for the purpose of capital management is as below.
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Equity share capital
2,454.40
1,843.49
Other equity
(1,355.26)
(5,369.22)
Total capital
1,099.14
(3,525.73)
51.	 Prior year amounts have been reclassified wherever necessary to confirm with current year presentation.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Suzlon Energy Limited
Shashi Tadwalkar
Partner
Membership No.: 101797
Vinod R. Tanti
Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00002266
J. P. Chalasani
Group Chief Executive Officer
Himanshu Mody
Group Chief Financial Officer
Geetanjali S. Vaidya 
Company Secretary 
Membership No.: A18026 
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
Place: Pune
Date: May 30, 2023
358
NOTICE
NOTICE is hereby given that the Twenty Eighth Annual 
General Meeting (the “Meeting”) of Suzlon Energy Limited 
(the “Company”) will be held on Wednesday, September 
27, 2023 at 11.00 a.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing 
or Other Audio Visual Means (“VC / OAVM”), to transact 
the following businesses:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
To adopt Financial Statements, etc. for the 
financial year 2022-23
	
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial 
Statements of the Company for the financial year 
ended on March 31, 2023 on standalone and 
consolidated basis and the reports of the Board of 
Directors and Auditors thereon.
2.	
To re-appoint Mr. Girish R. Tanti as Director
	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Girish R. Tanti 
(DIN: 00002603), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible offers himself for re-appointment.
3.	
To re-appoint Mr. Vinod R. Tanti as Director
	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Vinod R. Tanti 
(DIN: 00002266), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible offers himself for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
4.	
To approve remuneration of the Cost Auditors for 
the financial year 2023-24
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or 
without modification, the following resolution as an 
Ordinary Resolution:
	
RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 148 and other applicable provisions, if 
any, of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made 
thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment thereof for the time being in 
force), M/s. D.C. Dave & Co., Cost Accountants 
(Firm Registration No.000611), the Cost Auditors 
appointed by the Board of Directors of the 
Company to conduct the audit of the Cost Records 
of the Company for the financial year 2023-24, be 
paid a remuneration of ₹ 500,000/- (Rupees Five 
Lakh Only) per annum plus applicable taxes and 
reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses.”
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
of the Company be and is hereby authorised to do 
all such acts, deeds, matters and things and sign 
agreements, forms, declarations, returns, letters 
and papers as may be necessary, desirable and 
expedient to give effect to this resolution.”
5.	
To approve conversion of loans into Equity shares
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or 
without modification, the following resolution as a 
Special Resolution:
	
RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 62(3) and other applicable provisions, if 
any, of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made 
there under, and other applicable provisions, if any 
and to the extent applicable, of the Companies Act, 
2013 and Rules made thereunder (including any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof 
for the time being in force) (hereinafter referred to 
as the “Act”) and in accordance with the provisions 
of the Memorandum and Articles of Association 
of the Company, and applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018, as may be modified or re-enacted 
from time to time (hereinafter referred to as “ICDR 
Regulations”), if and to the extent applicable, the 
provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as 
the “Listing Regulations”) read with the listing 
agreements entered in to by the Company with the 
stock exchanges where the shares of the Company 
are listed and all other applicable laws, rules, 
regulations, notifications, guidelines, circulars and 
clarifications including but not limited to Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) 
Regulations, 2019, Foreign Exchange Management 
Act, 1999, Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer 
or Issue of Security by a Person Resident Outside 
India) Regulations, 2017, Master Direction on Foreign 
Investment in India issued by the Reserve Bank of 
India, Foreign Exchange Management (Non-debt 
Instruments) Rules, 2019, and other foreign exchange 
regulation provisions in India, as applicable, issued 
by various authorities including but not limited to 
the Government of India (“GOI”), the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”), the Reserve 
Bank of India (“RBI”), the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (“MCA”) and other competent authorities and 
subject to the approvals, permissions, sanctions and 
consents as may be necessary from any regulatory 
SUZLON ENERGY LIMITED
[CIN: L40100GJ1995PLC025447]
Regd. Office: “Suzlon”, 5, Shrimali Society, Near Shri Krishna Complex, Navrangpura, Ahmedabad-380009; 
Tel.: +91.79.6604 5000; website: www.suzlon.com; Email id: investors@suzlon.com
359
and other appropriate authorities (including but not 
limited to the GOI, SEBI, RBI, MCA, etc.), and all such 
other approvals including approvals of the lenders 
of the Company (as applicable) and subject to such 
conditions and modifications as may be prescribed 
by any of them while granting such approvals, 
permissions, sanctions and consents, which may be 
agreed to by the Board of Directors of the Company 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”, which term 
shall be deemed to include any committee which the 
Board has constituted or may constitute to exercise 
its powers, including the powers conferred by this 
resolution), the consent of the Company be and is 
hereby accorded to convert the whole or part of the 
outstanding loans / debentures of the Company in 
the matter of financial assistance granted / to be 
granted to the Company from time to time towards 
project specific funding by various lenders including 
but not limiting to REC Limited (“REC”), Power Finance 
Corporate Limited (“PFC”), Indian Renewable Energy 
Development Agency Limited (“IREDA”) (hereinafter 
referred to as the “PSF Lenders”), into fully paid up 
equity shares of the Company having a face value 
of ₹ 2/- (Rupees Two Only) each, in one or more 
tranches, at par or at a premium (as applicable), on 
such terms and conditions as set forth by the PSF 
Lenders, in terms of the sanction letter(s), term 
sheet(s), loan agreement(s), security document(s) 
and / or any other financing documents, by 
whatever name called (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Financing Documents”), or as may be stipulated 
by the PSF Lenders in .respect of their respective 
financial assistance or any financial assistance 
which may be availed in future by the Company, at 
the option of the PSF Lenders, and in the manner 
specified in a notice in writing to be given by the PSF 
Lenders (or their agents or trustees) from time to 
time to the Company (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Notice of Conversion”) and in accordance with the 
following conditions:
i)	
the conversion right reserved as aforesaid 
inter alia may be exercised by the PSF Lenders 
in the following events:
a)	
PSF Lenders shall be entitled to implement 
a resolution plan / enforce securities in 
case of default which may include but 
not limiting to conversion of entire loans 
(including unpaid interest) or part thereof, 
into shares in the Company in the event 
of default, as stipulated by the applicable 
RBI circular(s),
b)	
Such other events as may be specified by the 
PSF Lenders in the Financing Documents;
ii)	
on receipt of the Notice of Conversion, the 
Company shall, subject to the provisions of 
the Financing Documents and subject to the 
applicable laws, allot and issue the requisite 
number of fully paid-up equity shares of the 
Company to the PSF Lenders and the PSF 
Lenders shall accept the same in satisfaction 
of the part of the loans so converted;
iii)	
the part of the loan so converted shall cease 
to carry interest, further interest, additional 
interest, repayment instalment, liquidated 
damages, commission, fee, etc., as the case 
may be, from the date of conversion and the 
loan shall stand correspondingly reduced 
and upon such conversion, the repayment 
instalments of the loan payable after the 
date of such conversion as per the Financing 
Documents shall stand reduced by the 
amounts of the loan so converted;
iv)	
the equity shares so allotted and issued to 
the PSF Lenders shall rank pari passu with the 
existing equity shares of the Company in all 
respects and that the said equity shares shall 
be listed on the National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited and BSE Limited subject to the 
receipt of necessary regulatory permissions 
and approvals, as the case may be.”
	
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of 
giving effect to the aforesaid resolution, the Board 
be and is hereby authorised on behalf of the 
Company to take all actions and to do all such acts, 
deeds, matters and things (including sub-delegating 
its powers to such authorised representatives) as 
they may severally, in their absolute discretion, 
deem necessary, proper or desirable for such 
purpose, including deciding the dates of allotment, 
deciding and / or finalising other terms of issue and 
allotment in consonance with the applicable law, 
appointing intermediaries, advisors, consultants, 
bankers, other agencies, applying to depositories 
for admission of securities / lock-in of securities, 
giving credit for securities so allotted directly 
into the depository accounts of the PSF Lenders, 
decide on fractional entitlement (if any), listing of 
the equity shares to be issued and allotted, and to 
modify, accept and give effect to any modifications 
to the terms and conditions of the offer, issue and 
allotment as may be required by the statutory, 
regulatory 
and 
other 
appropriate 
authorities 
including but not limited to GOI, SEBI, RBI, MCA, etc. 
and such other approvals (as applicable) and as may 
be agreed by the Board, and to settle all questions, 
difficulties or doubts that may arise in the proposed 
issue, pricing of the issue, allotment and listing of 
the equity shares arising there from, and to execute 
all such affidavits, agreements, applications, deeds, 
declarations, documents, forms, letters, returns, 
undertakings, writings, etc. in connection with the 
proposed issue.”
By order of the Board of Directors of 
Suzlon Energy Limited
Geetanjali S. Vaidya,
Place: Pune	

Company Secretary.
Date: August 31, 2023
M.No.A18026.
Regd. Office: “Suzlon”, 5, Shrimali Society, Near Shri 
Krishna Complex, Navrangpura, Ahmedabad 380009.
360
Notes:
1.	
An Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in respect 
of the aforesaid items of Special Business is 
enclosed herewith.
2.	
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books 
of the Company shall remain closed from Thursday, 
September 21, 2023 to Wednesday, September 
27, 2023 (both days inclusive) for the purpose of 
the Meeting.
3.	
Profile of directors seeking appointment / re-
appointment as stipulated under Regulation 36 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (the “Listing Regulations”) is 
enclosed herewith.
4.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) 
has mandated furnishing of Permanent Account 
Number (PAN), address with pin code, email 
address, mobile number, bank account details 
and details of nomination by every participant in 
the securities market. The shareholders holding 
shares in electronic form are therefore requested to 
submit these details to their depository participant 
and the shareholders holding shares in physical 
form are required to submit these details to the 
Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agent, KFin 
Technologies Limited (formerly KFin Technologies 
Private Limited) (“KFin”), Selenium Tower B, 
Plot 31 & 32, Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally 
Mandal, 
Hyderabad-500032, 
Telangana, India, Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com; 
Toll Free No.1-800-309-4001.
5.	
All documents required to be kept open for 
inspection, if any, shall be open for inspection at 
the Registered office and Corporate office of the 
Company between 2.00 p.m. and 5.00 p.m. on all 
working days (except Saturdays, Sundays and 
Holidays). Such documents shall also be made 
available on the website of the Company, www.
suzlon.com to facilitate online inspection till the 
conclusion of the Meeting.
6.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has vide 
its Circular No.10/2022 dated December 28, 2022 
read with Circular No.14/2020 dated April 8, 2020, 
Circular No.17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, Circular 
No.20/2020 dated May 5, 2020, Circular No.02/2021 
dated January 13, 2021, Circular No.19/2021 dated 
December 8, 2021 and Circular No.2/2022 dated 
May 5, 2022 (collectively the “MCA Circulars”) 
permitted holding of the annual general meeting 
through VC / OAVM for the calendar year 2023. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
has also vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-
2/P/CIR/2023/4 dated January 5, 2023 read with 
Circular 
No.SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 
dated May 12, 2020, Circular No.SEBI/HO/CFD/
CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated January 15, 2021 and 
No.SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 
dated 
May 13, 2022 (collectively the “SEBI Circulars”) 
permitted holding of AGM through VC / OAVM. The 
MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars are hereinafter 
collectively referred to as the “Circulars”.
7.	
In compliance with the applicable provisions of the 
Act read with the Circulars, the Meeting is being 
conducted through VC / OAVM. KFin, the Company’s 
Registrar and Transfer Agent, will provide the facility 
for voting through remote e-voting, participating 
at the Meeting through VC / OAVM and e-voting 
during the Meeting. Accordingly, the members 
can attend the Meeting through login credentials 
provided to them to connect to the VC / OAVM. 
The attendance of shareholders (members’ login) 
attending the Meeting will be counted for the 
purpose of reckoning the quorum under Section 
103 of the Act.
8.	
In terms of Companies Act, 2013, a member entitled 
to attend and vote at a meeting is entitled to 
appoint a proxy to attend and vote on a poll instead 
of himself and the proxy need not be a member 
of the Company. Since the Meeting is being held 
through VC / OAVM pursuant to the Circulars, 
physical attendance of the members is dispensed 
with and consequently, the facility for appointment 
of proxies is not applicable. Hence the proxy forms, 
attendance slips and route map are not annexed to 
this Notice.
9.	
Corporate members intending to authorise their 
representatives pursuant to Section 113 of the Act 
to participate in the Meeting and cast their votes 
through e-voting, are requested to send certified 
copy of the Board / governing body resolution / 
authorisation, etc. authorising their representatives 
to attend and vote on their behalf by email to 
ram.devata@gmail.com and a copy be marked to 
evoting@kfintech.com with the subject line ‘Suzlon 
Energy Limited’.
10.	 The Company has appointed Mr. D S M Ram 
(Membership No.A14939 and Certificate of Practice 
No.4239), Proprietor of DSMR & Associates, 
Company Secretaries, Hyderabad, as the Scrutinizer 
to scrutinize remote e-voting process and e-voting 
at the Meeting in a fair and transparent manner. The 
Scrutinizer shall immediately after the conclusion of 
the Meeting unblock the votes cast at the Meeting 
and thereafter unblock the votes cast through 
remote e-voting in the presence of at least two 
witnesses not in the employment of the Company. 
The Scrutinizer shall submit a consolidated 
Scrutinizer’s Report of the total votes cast in favour 
of or against, if any, not later than forty eight hours 
after the conclusion of the Meeting to the Chairman 
of the Company. The Chairman, or any other 
person authorised by the Chairman, shall declare 
361
the result of the voting forthwith. The resolutions 
will be deemed to be passed on the date of the 
Meeting subject to receipt of the requisite number 
of votes in favour of the resolutions. The results 
declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report(s) will 
be communicated to the National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited and BSE Limited immediately after 
it is declared by the Chairman, or any other person 
authorised by the Chairman, and the same shall also 
be available on the website of the Company, www.
suzlon.com and on KFin’s weblink https://evoting.
kfintech.com.
DISPATCH OF ANNUAL REPORT, PROCESS FOR 
REGISTRATION OF EMAIL ID FOR OBTAINING COPY 
OF NOTICE AND ANNUAL REPORT:
11.	
In accordance with the provisions of the Circulars, 
the Notice along with the Annual Report comprising 
of the Financial Statements, Board’s Report, 
Auditors’ Report and other documents are being 
sent through email only to members whose email 
IDs are registered with KFin and / or National 
Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) and / or 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”) 
(collectively referred to as Depositories or NSDL / 
CDSL) and physical copies will not be sent.
12.	 The Notice and the Annual Report are available on 
the website of the Company (www.suzlon.com), the 
website of KFin (https://evoting.kfintech.com) and 
also on the website of National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited (www.nseindia.com) and BSE Limited 
(www.bseindia.com).
13.	 Shareholders who have still not registered their 
email IDs are requested to do so at the earliest 
as under:
•	
Shareholders holding shares in physical 
mode are hereby notified that based on SEBI 
Circular No.SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/
CIR/2023/37 dated March 16, 2023, all holders 
of physical securities in listed companies shall 
register the postal address along with PIN for 
their corresponding folio numbers. It shall be 
mandatory for the security holders to provide 
mobile number. Moreover, to avail online 
services, the security holders can register their 
email IDs. Shareholders can register/update 
the contact details through submitting the 
requisite Form ISR-1 along with the supporting 
documents. Form ISR-1 can be obtained by 
clicking on the link https://ris.kfintech.com/
clientservices/isc/default.aspx. Form ISR-1 and 
the supporting documents can be provided by 
any one of the following modes:
a)	
Through ‘In Person Verification’ (IPV), the 
authorised person of KFin shall verify 
the original documents furnished by the 
shareholder and retain copy(ies) with IPV 
stamping with date and initials;
b)	
Through hard copies which are self-
attested, which can be shared on the 
address of KFin;
c)	
Through electronic mode with e-sign by 
following the link https://ris.kfintech.com/
clientservices/isc/default.aspx.
	
Detailed FAQs are available on KFin’s weblink 
https://ris.kfintech.com/faq.html.
•	
Shareholders holding shares in electronic 
mode may reach out to the respective 
Depository Participant(s), where the Demat 
account is being held for updating the email 
IDs and mobile number.
•	
Shareholders are requested to support this 
Green Initiative effort of the Company and get 
their email ID registered to enable the Company 
to send documents such as notices, annual 
reports, and other documents in electronic 
form. Those shareholders who have already 
registered their email addresses are requested 
to keep their email addresses validated with 
their Depository Participants / KFin to enable 
servicing of notice, annual reports, other 
documents in electronic form.
•	
Please note that as a valued shareholder of the 
Company, you are always entitled to request 
and receive all such communication in physical 
form free of cost. Further, the documents 
served through email are available on the 
Company’s website (www.suzlon.com) and are 
also available for inspection at the Registered 
Office and Corporate Office of the Company 
during specified business hours.
CUT-OFF DATE:
14.	 The cut-off date for the purpose of ascertaining 
shareholders entitled for remote e-voting and 
voting at the Meeting is Wednesday, September 
20, 2023 (hereinafter referred to as the “Cut-off 
Date”). A person, whose name is recorded in the 
Register of Members or in the Register of Beneficial 
Owners maintained by the Depositories as on the 
Cut-off Date only shall be entitled to avail the facility 
of remote e-voting as well as voting at the Meeting. 
The voting rights of members shall be in proportion 
to their shares of the paid up equity share capital of 
the Company (as reflected in depository records) 
as on the Cut-off Date. A person who is not a 
shareholder as on the Cut-off Date should treat this 
Notice for information purpose only.
15.	 Any person who acquires shares of the Company 
and becomes a member of the Company after 
despatch of the Notice of the Meeting and holding 
shares as of the Cut-off Date may obtain the User ID 
and Password in the manner as mentioned below:
362
•	
If the mobile number of the member is 
registered against Folio No. / DP ID Client ID, the 
member may send SMS: MYEPWD<space>E-
voting Event Number (EVEN) + Folio No. or DP 
ID Client ID to +91 9212993399
	
Example 
for 
NSDL: 
MYEPWD<SPACE> 
IN12345612345678
	
Example 
for 
CDSL: 
MYEPWD<SPACE> 
1402345612345678
	
Example 
for 
Physical: 
MYEPWD<SPACE> 
XXXX1234567890
•	
If email ID of the member is registered against 
Folio No. / DP ID Client ID, then on the home 
page 
of 
https://evoting.kfintech.com, 
the 
member may click ‘Forgot password’ and 
enter Folio No. or DP ID Client ID and PAN to 
generate a password.
•	
Members may send an email request to 
evoting@kfintech.com. If the member is 
already registered with the KFin e-voting 
platform then such member can use his / her 
existing User ID and password for casting the 
vote through remote e-voting.
•	
Members may call KFin toll free number 1-800-
309-4001 for any clarifications / assistance 
that may be required.
PROCEDURE FOR SPEAKER REGISTRATION:
16.	 Members, holding shares as on the Cut-off Date 
and who would like to speak or express their views 
or ask questions during the Meeting may register 
themselves as speakers at https://emeetings.
kfintech.com and clicking on “Speaker Registration” 
during the period from Sunday, September 24, 2023 
(9.00 a.m. IST) up to Tuesday, September 26, 2023 
(5.00 p.m. IST). Those members who have registered 
themselves as a speaker will only be allowed to 
speak / express their views / ask questions during 
the Meeting. The Company reserves the right to 
restrict the number of questions and number of 
speakers, as appropriate for smooth conduct of the 
Meeting.
17.	
Alternatively, members holding shares as on the Cut-
off Date may also visit https://emeetings.kfintech.
com and click on the tab ‘Post Your Queries’ and 
post their queries / views / questions in the window 
provided, by mentioning their name, demat account 
number / folio number, email ID and mobile number. 
The window will close at 5.00 p.m. (IST) on Tuesday, 
September 26, 2023. The shareholders may also 
send their questions by email to investors@suzlon.
com.
18.	 Members who need assistance before or during 
the Meeting, relating to use of technology, can 
contact KFin at 1-800-309-4001 or write to KFin at 
evoting@kfintech.com.
REMOTE E-VOTING:
19.	 In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 of 
the Act, Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended from 
time to time, Regulation 44 of the Listing Regulations 
read with SEBI circular no.SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/
CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9, 2020 relating 
to ‘e-voting Facility Provided by Listed Entities’ 
(“SEBI e-voting Circular”), the Company is providing 
the facility to the shareholders to exercise their right 
to vote on the proposed resolutions electronically 
(“remote e-voting”). KFin will provide the remote 
e-voting facility to enable the shareholders to 
exercise their right to vote on resolutions proposed 
to be considered through this Notice by electronic 
means. Remote e-voting is optional.
20.	 The remote e-voting period commences on 
Sunday, September 24, 2023 (9.00 a.m. IST) 
up to Tuesday, September 26, 2023 (5.00 p.m. 
IST). During this period, the shareholders of the 
Company holding fully paid-up and partly paid-up 
shares either in physical form or in demat form, as 
on the Cut-off Date may cast their vote by remote 
e-voting. The remote e-voting module shall be 
disabled by KFin for voting thereafter. Once the 
vote on a resolution is cast by a member, whether 
partially or otherwise, the member shall not be 
allowed to change it subsequently or cast the vote 
again. Members, who cast their vote by remote 
e-voting, may attend the Meeting through VC / 
OAVM, but will not be entitled to cast their vote 
once again on the resolutions.
21.	 The shareholders are requested to cast their vote 
for both fully paid-up shares as well as partly paid-
up shares, as the case may be. 
22.	 The voting rights of the shareholders shall be in 
proportion to their shares in the paid-up equity 
share capital of the Company (as reflecting in 
Depository Records) as on the Cut-off Date. 
23.	 In terms of SEBI e-voting Circular, e-voting process 
has been enabled for all ‘individual demat account 
holders’, by way of a single login credential, through 
their demat accounts / websites of Depositories 
/ Depository Participant(s) (“DP”). The detailed 
instructions for remote e-voting are given below.
24.	 Individual members having demat account(s) would 
be able to cast their vote without having to register 
again with the e-voting service provider (“ESP”), 
i.e. KFin, thereby not only facilitating seamless 
authentication but also ease and convenience of 
participating in the e-voting process. Members are 
advised to update their mobile number and email ID 
with their DPs to access the e-voting facility.
JOINING THE MEETING THROUGH VC / OAVM:
25.	 Members will be able to attend the Meeting through 
VC / OAVM or view the live webcast of the Meeting 
363
at https://emeetings.kfintech.com/ by using their 
remote e-voting login credentials and selecting the 
‘EVEN’ for Company’s Meeting.
26.	 Members who do not have the User ID and 
Password for e-voting or have forgotten the User ID 
and Password may retrieve the same by following 
the remote e-voting instructions mentioned in the 
Notice. Further, members can also use the OTP 
based login for logging into the e-voting system.
27.	 Members may join the Meeting through laptop, 
smartphone, tablet or iPad for better experience. 
Further, members are requested to use internet 
with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during 
the Meeting. Members will need the latest version 
of Chrome, Safari, Internet Explorer 11, MS Edge or 
Mozilla Firefox.
	
Please note that participants connecting from mobile 
devices or tablets or through laptops connecting 
via mobile hotspot may experience audio / video 
loss due to fluctuation in their respective network. 
It is therefore recommended to use stable Wi-Fi or 
LAN connection to mitigate any glitches.
	
Members will be required to grant access to the 
webcam to enable two-way video conferencing.
28.	 Facility of joining the Meeting through VC / OAVM 
shall open 30 (thirty) minutes before the time 
scheduled for the Meeting and shall be kept open 
throughout the Meeting. Members will be able 
to participate in the Meeting through VC / OAVM 
on a first-come-first-serve basis. Up to 1,000 
shareholders will be able to join the Meeting on a 
first-come-first-serve basis.
	
Large members (i.e. members holding 2% or 
more 
shareholding), 
promoters, 
institutional 
investors, directors, key managerial personnel, the 
Chairpersons of the Audit Committee, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee, Auditors, etc. will not be 
subject to the aforesaid restriction of first-come 
first-serve basis.
	
Institutional members are encouraged to participate 
at the Meeting through VC / OAVM and vote thereat.
29.	 Members are requested to attend and participate at 
the Meeting through VC / OAVM and cast their vote 
either through remote e-voting facility or through 
e-voting facility to be provided during Meeting. 
The facility of e-voting during the Meeting will be 
available to those members who have not cast their 
vote by remote e-voting. Members, who cast their 
vote by remote e-voting, may attend the Meeting 
through VC / OAVM, but will not be entitled to cast 
their vote once again on the resolutions. If a member 
casts votes by both modes, i.e. voting at Meeting 
and remote e-voting, voting done through remote 
e-voting shall prevail and vote at the Meeting shall 
be treated as invalid.
30.	 In case of any query and / or assistance required, 
relating to attending the Meeting through VC / 
OAVM mode, members may refer to the Help & 
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and ‘AGM VC 
/ OAVM’ user manual available at the download 
Section of https://evoting.kfintech.com or contact 
Mr. Ganesh Chandra Patro, Asst. Vice President, 
KFin at the email ID evoting@kfintech.com or KFin’s 
toll free No.: 1-800-309-4001.
364
INSTRUCTIONS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING, JOINING THE MEETING THROUGH VC / OAVM AND E-VOTING AT THE 
MEETING:
31.	 The detailed instructions, process and manner for remote e-voting, joining the meeting through VC / OAVM and 
e-voting at the meeting are explained below:
I)	
Method of login / access to Depositories (NSDL / CDSL) e-voting system in case of individual members holding 
shares in demat mode
Type of member
Login Method
Individual members 
holding securities 
in demat mode with 
NSDL
A.	 Instructions for existing Internet-based Demat Account Statement (“IDeAS”) facility 
Users:
	
i)	
Visit the e-services website of NSDL https://eservices.nsdl.com. 
	
ii)	 On the e-services home page click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is 
available under ‘IDeAS’ section. 
	
iii)	 A new page will open, Enter the existing user id and password for accessing IDeAS. 
	
iv)	 After successful authentication, members will be able to see e-voting services under 
‘Value Added Services’. Please click on “Access to e-voting” under e-voting services, 
after which the e-voting page will be displayed.
	
v)	 Click on company name, i.e. ‘Suzlon Energy Limited’, or e-voting service provider, 
i.e. KFin.
	
vi)	 Members will be re-directed to KFin’s website for casting their vote during the remote 
e-voting period and voting during the Meeting.
B.	 Instructions for those Members who are not registered under IDeAS:
	
i)	
Visit https://eservices.nsdl.com for registering.
	
ii)	 Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/
SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp.
	
iii)	 Visit the e-voting website of NSDL https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/.
	
iv)	 Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is 
available under ‘Shareholder / Member’ section. A new screen will open.
	
v)	 Members will have to enter their User ID (i.e. the sixteen digits demat account number 
held with NSDL), password / OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen.
	
vi)	 After successful authentication, members will be redirected to NSDL Depository site 
wherein they can see e-voting page.
	
vii)	Click on company name, i.e. Suzlon Energy Limited, or e-voting service provider name, 
i.e. KFin, after which the member will be redirected to e-voting service provider website 
for casting their vote during the remote e-voting period and voting during the Meeting.
C.	 NSDL Mobile APP
	
i)	
Members can also download the NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning 
the QR code for seamless voting experience.
365
Type of member
Login Method
Individual members 
holding securities 
in demat mode with 
CDSL
A.	 Instructions for existing users who have opted for Electronic Access to Securities 
Information (“Easi / Easiest”) facility:
	
i)	
Visit https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasinew/home/login or www.cdslindia.com
	
ii)	 Click on New System MyEasi.
	
iii)	 Login to MyEasi option under quick login.
	
iv)	 Enter the registered user ID and password for accessing Easi / Easiest. 
	
v)	 Members will be able to view the e-voting Menu.
	
vi)	 The Menu will have links of KFin e-voting portal and will be redirected to the e-voting 
page of KFin to cast vote without any further authentication.
B.	 Instructions for users who have not registered for Easi / Easiest
	
i)	
Visit https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasinew/Registration/EasiRegistration for registering.
	
ii)	 Proceed to complete registration using the DP ID, Client ID (BO ID), etc.
	
iii)	 After successful registration, please follow the steps given in point no.A above to cast 
vote.
C.	 Alternatively, instructions for directly accessing the e-voting website of CDSL
	
i)	
Visit www.cdslindia.com
	
ii)	 Provide demat Account Number and PAN
	
iii)	 System will authenticate user by sending OTP on registered mobile and email as 
recorded in the demat Account.
	
iv)	 After successful authentication, please enter the e-voting module of CDSL. Click on the 
e-voting link available against the name of the Company, viz., ‘Suzlon Energy Limited’ or 
select KFin.
	
v)	 Members will be re-directed to the e-voting page of KFin to cast vote without any 
further authentication. 
Individual members 
login through 
their demat 
accounts / Website 
of Depository 
Participant(s)
A.	 Instructions for login through Demat Account / website of Depository Participant
	
i)	
Members can also login using the login credentials of their demat account through their 
DP registered with the Depositories for e-voting facility.
	
ii)	 Once logged-in, members will be able to view e-voting option.
	
iii)	 Upon clicking on e-voting option, members will be redirected to the NSDL / CDSL 
website after successful authentication, wherein they will be able to view the e-voting 
feature.
	
iv)	 Click on options available against Suzlon Energy Limited or KFin.
	
v)	 Members will be redirected to e-voting website of KFin for casting their vote during the 
remote e-voting period without any further authentication.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID / Password are advised to use Forgot user ID and 
Forgot Password option available at respective websites.
Helpdesk for Individual members holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through 
NSDL / CDSL:
Securities held with 
NSDL
Please contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at toll free no.: 
022-48867000 and 022-24997000
Securities held with 
CDSL
Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or 
contact at 022-23058738 or 022-23058542-43
366
II)	
Method of login / access to KFin e-voting system in case of individual members holding shares in physical mode 
and non-individual members in demat mode
Type of 
member
Login Method
Members 
whose email 
IDs are 
registered with 
the Company 
/ Depository 
Participant(s)
A.	 Instructions for Members whose email IDs are registered with the Company / Depository 
Participant(s)
	
Members whose email IDs are registered with the Company / Depository Participant(s) will receive 
an email from KFin which will include details of E-voting Event Number (EVEN), USER ID and 
password. They will have to follow the following process:
	
i)	
Launch internet browser by typing the URL: https://evoting.kfintech.com/
	
ii)	 Enter the login credentials (i.e. User ID and password). In case of physical folio, User ID will be 
EVEN (E-Voting Event Number), followed by folio number. In case of Demat account, User ID 
will be DP ID and Client ID. However, if a member is registered with KFin for e-voting, they can 
use their existing User ID and password for casting the vote. 
	
iii)	 After entering these details appropriately, click on “LOGIN”.
	
iv)	 Members will now reach password change Menu wherein they are required to mandatorily 
change the password. The new password shall comprise of minimum 8 characters with at least 
one upper case (A-Z), one lower case (a-z), one numeric value (0-9) and a special character 
(@,#,$, etc.,). The system will prompt the member to change their password and update their 
contact details viz. mobile number, email ID etc. on first login. Members may also enter a 
secret question and answer of their choice to retrieve their password in case they forget it. It is 
strongly recommended that members do not share their password with any other person and 
that they take utmost care to keep their password confidential.
	
v)	 Members would need to login again with the new credentials.
	
vi)	 On successful login, the system will prompt the member to select the “EVEN”, i.e. ‘Suzlon 
Energy Limited – FP’ and ‘Suzlon Energy Limited – PP’, and click on “Submit” depending upon 
whether a member is a shareholder of fully paid shares and / or partly paid shares, as the case 
may be.
	
vii)On the voting page, enter the number of shares (which represents the number of votes) as 
on the Cut-off Date under “FOR/AGAINST” or alternatively, a member may partially enter any 
number in “FOR” and partially “AGAINST” but the total number in “FOR/AGAINST” taken together 
shall not exceed the total shareholding as mentioned herein above. A member may also choose 
the option ABSTAIN. If a member does not indicate either “FOR” or “AGAINST” it will be treated 
as “ABSTAIN” and the shares held will not be counted under either head.
	
viii)	Members holding multiple folios / demat accounts shall choose the voting process separately 
for each folio / demat account.
	
ix)	 Voting has to be done for each item of the Notice separately. In case members do not desire to 
cast their vote on any specific item, it will be treated as abstained.
	
x)	 Members may then cast their vote by selecting an appropriate option and click on “Submit”.
	
xi)	 A confirmation box will be displayed. Click “OK” to confirm else “CANCEL” to modify. Once 
members have voted on the resolution(s), they will not be allowed to modify their vote. 
During the voting period, members can login any number of times till they have voted on the 
Resolution(s).
	
xii)	Corporate/ Institutional members (corporate / FIs / FIIs / trust / mutual funds / banks, etc.) 
are required to send scanned copy (pdf format) of the relevant board resolution to the 
Scrutinizer through e-mail to ram.devata@gmail.com with a copy to evoting@kfintech.com. 
The file scanned image / pdf file of the board resolution should be in the naming format “Suzlon 
Energy Limited”.
367
Type of 
member
Login Method
Members 
whose email 
IDs are not 
registered with 
the Company 
/ Depository 
Participants(s)
B.	 Instructions for Members whose email IDs are not registered with the Company / Depository 
Participant(s), and consequently the Notice of Meeting and e-voting instructions cannot be 
serviced
	
i)	
Members, who have not registered their email address may send an email request at the 
email id einward.ris@kfintech.com along with scanned copy of the request letter, duly signed, 
providing their email address, mobile number, self-attested PAN copy and Client Master copy 
in case of electronic folio and copy of share certificate in case of physical folio for sending the 
Notice and e-voting instructions.
	
ii)	 After receiving the e-voting instructions, please follow all the above steps to cast vote by 
electronic means.
	
iii)	 It is clarified that for permanent registration of the email address,
	
	
•	
Shareholders holding shares in physical mode are hereby notified that based on SEBI 
Circular No.SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/37 dated March 16, 2023, all holders 
of physical securities in listed companies shall register the postal address along with PIN 
for their corresponding folio numbers. It shall be mandatory for the security holders to 
provide mobile number. Moreover, to avail online services, the security holders can register 
their email IDs. Shareholders can register/update the contact details through submitting 
the requisite Form ISR-1 along with the supporting documents. Form ISR-1 can be obtained 
by clicking on the link https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/default.aspx. Form ISR-1 
and the supporting documents can be provided by any one of the following modes:
	
	
	
a)	 Through ‘In Person Verification’ (IPV), the authorised person of KFin shall verify the 
original documents furnished by the shareholder and retain copy(ies) with IPV stamping 
with date and initials;
	
	
	
b)	 Through hard copies which are self-attested, which can be shared on the address of 
KFin;
	
	
	
c)	 Through electronic mode with e-sign by following the link https://ris.kfintech.com/
clientservices/isc/default.aspx.
	
	
	
Detailed FAQs are available on KFin’s weblink https://ris.kfintech.com/faq.html.
	
	
•	
Shareholders holding shares in electronic mode may reach out to the respective Depository 
Participant(s), where the Demat account is being held for updating the email IDs and 
mobile number.
III)	 Method for obtaining User ID and password for shareholders who have forgotten the User ID and password
Members who 
have forgotten 
the User ID 
and password 
or any person 
who acquires 
shares of the 
Company and 
becomes a 
member after 
despatch of 
the Notice and 
holding shares 
as on Cut-off 
date
Members who have forgotten the User ID and password or any person who acquires shares of the 
Company and becomes a member after despatch of the Notice and holding shares as on Cut-off 
date, may obtain / retrieve the same in the manner mentioned below:
i)	
If the mobile number of the member is registered against Folio No. / DP ID Client ID, the member 
may send SMS: MYEPWD<space>E-voting Event Number (EVEN) + Folio No. or DP ID Client ID to 
+91 9212993399
	
Example for NSDL: MYEPWD<SPACE> IN12345612345678
	
Example for CDSL: MYEPWD<SPACE> 1402345612345678
	
Example for Physical: MYEPWD<SPACE> XXXX1234567890
ii)	 If email ID of the member is registered against Folio No. / DP ID Client ID, then on the home page 
of https://evoting.kfintech.com, the member may click ‘Forgot password’ and enter Folio No. or DP 
ID Client ID and PAN to generate a password.
iii)	 Members may send an email request to evoting@kfintech.com. If the member is already registered 
with the KFin e-voting platform, then such member can use his / her existing User ID and password 
for casting the vote through remote e-voting. 
iv)	 Members may call KFin toll free number 1-800-309-4001 for any clarifications / assistance that 
may be required
368
IV)	 Method / Access to join the Meeting on KFin system and to participate and vote thereat
Type of 
member
Login Method
All 
shareholders, 
including 
Individual, 
other than 
Individual and 
Physical, for 
attending the 
Meeting of 
the Company 
through VC 
/ OAVM and 
e-voting during 
the meeting
A.	 Instructions for all the shareholders, including Individual, other than Individual and Physical, for 
attending the Meeting of the Company through VC / OAVM and e-voting during the meeting:
	
i)	
Members will be able to attend the Meeting through VC / OAVM platform provided by KFin. 
Members may access the same at https://emeetings.kfintech.com/ by using the e-voting login 
credentials provided in the email received from the Company / KFin.
	
ii)	 After logging in, click on the Video Conference tab and select the EVEN of the Company.
	
iii)	 Click on the video symbol and accept the meeting etiquettes to join the meeting. Please note 
that members who do not have the user id and password for e-voting or have forgotten the 
same may retrieve them by following the remote e-voting instructions mentioned above.
	
iv)	 The procedure for e-voting during the Meeting is same as the procedure for remote e-voting 
since the Meeting is being held through VC / OAVM.
	
v)	 The e-voting window shall be activated upon instructions of the Chairman of the Meeting 
during the Meeting.
	
vi)	 E-voting during the Meeting is integrated with the VC / OAVM platform and no separate login is 
required for the same.
32.	 KPRISM- Mobile service application by KFin: Shareholders are requested to note that KFin has launched a mobile 
application, KPRISM and website https://kprism.kfintech.com, for online service to members. Members can 
download the mobile application, register themselves (one time) for availing host of services, viz., consolidated 
portfolio view serviced by KFin, dividend status and send requests for change of address, change / update bank 
mandate. Through the mobile application, members can download annual reports, standard forms and keep track 
of upcoming general meetings and dividend disbursements. The mobile application is available for download from 
Android Play Store and Google Play Store.
369
Agenda Item No.4: To approve remuneration of the 
Cost Auditors for the financial year 2023-24
The Board of Directors has, at the recommendation of 
the Audit Committee, approved the appointment and 
remuneration of M/s. D.C.Dave & Co., Cost Accountants 
(Firm Registration No.000611), to conduct the audit 
of the Cost Records of the Company for the financial 
year 2023-24. In terms of Section 148 and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Act and the Rules 
made thereunder, the remuneration payable to the Cost 
Auditors has to be approved / ratified by the shareholders 
of the Company.
The Board of Directors recommend approving the 
remuneration of the Cost Auditors for the financial year 
2023-24. In light of above, you are requested to accord 
your approval to the Ordinary Resolution as set out at 
Agenda Item No.4 of the accompanying Notice.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Company and their relatives has any concern 
or interest, financial or otherwise, in the proposed 
resolution.
Agenda Item No. 5: To approve conversion of loans 
into Equity shares
The Company proposes to avail project specific funding 
(PSF) in the nature of working capital for execution of its 
new / ongoing projects from various lenders including but 
not limiting to REC Limited, Power Finance Corporation 
Limited, Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency 
Limited, etc. (the “PSF Lenders”).
One of the conditions of the PSF is that the Company, 
in terms of Section 62(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, 
would issue equity shares of the Company on conversion 
of loan / debentures in the matter of PSF granted / to 
be granted by the PSF Lenders, on such terms and 
conditions as set forth by the PSF Lenders in the 
respective Financing Documents.
Section 62(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 inter alia 
provides that where at any time, a company having 
a share capital proposes to increase its subscribed 
capital by the issue of further shares, such shares shall 
be offered to persons who, at the date of the offer, are 
holders of equity shares of the company in proportion, 
as nearly as circumstances admit, to the paid-up share 
capital on those shares by sending a letter of offer. 
Further, Section 62(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 
provides that nothing in Section 62 shall apply to the 
increase of the subscribed capital of a Company caused 
by the exercise of an option as a term attached to the 
debentures issued or loan raised by the company to 
convert such debentures or loans into shares in the 
Company; provided that the terms of issue of such 
debentures or loan containing such an option have 
been approved before the issue of such debentures or 
the raising of loan by a special resolution passed by the 
company in a general meeting.
Pursuant to Section 62(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Rules made thereunder, approval of the shareholders 
is required for the issuance and allotment of the equity 
shares consequent to conversion of debt into equity, if 
so exercised by the PSF Lenders.
The Board of Directors recommend passing of the 
Special Resolution to consider approval for conversion 
of loan in to equity. In light of above, you are requested 
to accord your approval to the Special Resolution as set 
out at Agenda Item No.5 of the accompanying Notice.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Company and their relatives has any concern 
or interest, financial or otherwise, in the proposed 
resolution.
By order of the Board of Directors of 
Suzlon Energy Limited
Geetanjali S. Vaidya
Place: Pune	

Company Secretary
Date: August 31, 2023
M.No.A18026
Regd. Office: “Suzlon”, 5, Shrimali Society, Near Shri 
Krishna Complex, Navrangpura, Ahmedabad 380009.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
[Pursuant to Section 102 of the Act]
370
ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE
Profile of Directors seeking appointment / re-appointment at the Twenty Eighth Annual General Meeting as stipulated 
under Regulation 36 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations) is as under:
Mr. Girish R. Tanti (DIN: 00002603)
Brief Resume: Mr. Girish R. Tanti is a founding member of Suzlon Energy Limited. He has a bachelor’s degree in Electronics 
& Communication Engineering and holds a master’s degree in Business Administration from UK. He brings to Suzlon 
an extensive experience of over 27 years in renewables and international business. Mr. Girish R. Tanti holds a unique 
blend of understanding the dynamics of technology and strong business acumen. Over the past years, he has played 
many roles including incubating the renewable energy business in 1995, established technology development centres in 
Europe and India, setting up the global supply chain, developing wind markets across India, establishing global business 
operations and corporate development  activities. He also led various service functions, such as human resources, 
information technology, communications and CSR. He has been instrumental in Suzlon’s rise to become the only wind 
energy player from a developing nation to rank among the top five worldwide. Through the years, Mr. Girish R. Tanti has 
not only believed in, but completely devoted himself to champion the vision of harnessing renewable energy to power a 
greener, more sustainable tomorrow for generations to come.
The details of Mr. Girish R. Tanti are given below:
S. N.
Particulars
Details of Director
1.
Name of Director
Mr. Girish R. Tanti (DIN: 00002603)
2.
Age
53 years
3.
Qualifications
Bachelor’s degree in Electronics & Communication Engineering and holds 
a master’s degree in Business Administration from UK
4.
Experience
Over 27 years’ experience in Renewables, International Business 
Development, Human Resources, Information Technology, Corporate 
Communications and CSR
5.
Details of remuneration to be paid, if any
The details have been provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
forming part of the Annual Report.
6.
Date of first appointment to the Board
•	
Appointed as an Additional Director / Executive Director – 
Administration w.e.f. 04/12/1995
•	
Regularised at 1st AGM dated 10/10/1996
•	
Re-appointed as Director (International Operations) w.e.f. 01/12/2000 
and as ratified at EGM dated 01/01/2001
•	
Re-appointed as Director (International Business Development & HR) 
w.e.f. 01/04/2005 and as ratified at EGM dated 16/06/2005
•	
Re-appointed as Wholetime Director (Executive Director) w.e.f. 
01/04/2008 and as ratified at EGM dated 22/05/2008
•	
Re-appointed as Wholetime Director (Executive Director) w.e.f. 
01/04/2011
•	
Resigned as Wholetime Director (Executive Director) w.e.f. 30/07/2011; 
however continued as a Non-Executive Director
•	
Appointed as Executive Director designated as ‘Executive Vice Chairman’ 
w.e.f. 07/10/2022 for a period of 3 years, which appointment was ratified 
by the shareholders by way of postal ballot on January 5, 2023
7.
Shareholding in the Company
100,019,000 fully paid equity shares aggregating to 0.73% of the paid-up 
capital of the Company as on date of this Notice
8.
Relationship with other Directors / KMPs
Mr. Girish R. Tanti is brother of Mr. Vinod R. Tanti, the Chairman and 
Managing Director, and is related to Mr. Pranav T. Tanti, the Non-Executive 
Director
9.
No. of meetings attended during the year
The details have been provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
forming part of the Annual Report
371
S. N.
Particulars
Details of Director
10.
In case of Independent Directors, 
justification for choosing the appointee
Not Applicable
11.
Directorships, Memberships / Chairmanship of Committees
Name of domestic companies in which 
director
Name of committees in which member / chairman
Suzlon Energy Limited
Stakeholder Relationship Committee, Member
CSR Committee, Member
Securities Issue Committee, Member
Risk Management Committee, Member
Tanti Holdings Private Limited
CSR Committee, Member
Samanvaya Holdings Private Limited
None.
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti (DIN: 00002266)
Brief resume: Mr. Vinod R. Tanti is a founding member of Suzlon Energy Limited. He has a Bachelors’ degree in Civil 
Engineering. He has extensive experience of over 34 years managing various key functions at Suzlon. He was also the 
Chief Operating Officer of Senvion, Germany, for the period from June 1, 2012 till June 15, 2013, at a time when Senvion 
was a global leader in wind turbine technology. With a strong techno-commercial background, he has handled diverse 
portfolios, like wind resource assessment, acquisition, product design, prototyping, comprehensive supply management, 
project execution and lifecycle management through operations and maintenance services. Mr. Vinod R. Tanti brings 
to Suzlon, his vast experience of the complete wind energy value chain as well as his process centricity and drive 
for innovation. Suzlon established and continues to maintain its technology and service leadership in India under his 
supervision.
The details of Mr. Vinod R. Tanti are given below:
S. N.
Particulars
Details of Director
1.
Name of Director
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti (DIN: 00002266)
2.
Age
61 years
3.
Qualifications
Degree in Civil Engineering
4.
Experience
Over 34 years’ experience in various fields including manufacturing and 
supply chain
5.
Details of remuneration to be paid, if any
The details have been provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
forming part of the Annual Report.
6.
Date of first appointment to the Board
•	
First Director since incorporation, i.e. 10/04/1995 till 01/07/2005
•	
Appointed as an Additional Director and also as Executive Director 
w.e.f. 01/11/2010 for a period of 3 years
•	
Regularised at the Sixteenth AGM dated 27/09/2011
•	
Resigned as Wholetime Director (Executive Director) w.e.f. 01/06/2012; 
however continued as Non-Executive Director
•	
Appointed as Wholetime Director & Chief Operating Officer w.e.f. 
01/10/2016 for a period of 3 years
•	
Re-appointed as Wholetime Director & Chief Operating Officer at 
Twenty Fourth AGM w.e.f. 01/10/2019 for a period of 3 years
•	
Re-appointed as Wholetime Director & Chief Operating Officer at 
Twenty Seventh AGM w.e.f. 01/10/2022 for a period of 3 years
•	
Ceased as Wholetime Director & Chief Operating Officer w.e.f. 
06/10/2022
•	
Appointed as Chairman & Managing Director w.e.f. 07/10/2022 for a 
period of 3 years, , which appointment was ratified by the shareholders 
by way of postal ballot on January 5, 2023.
372
S. N.
Particulars
Details of Director
7.
Shareholding in the Company
30,267,000 fully paid-up equity shares aggregating to 0.22% of the paid-
up capital of the Company as on date of this Notice. Mr. Vinod R. Tanti also 
holds shares jointly with others
8.
Relationship with other Directors / KMPs
Mr. Vinod R. Tanti is brother of Mr. Girish R. Tanti, the Executive Vice 
Chairman, and is related to Mr. Pranav T. Tanti, the Non-Executive Director
9.
No. of meetings attended during the year
The details have been provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
forming part of the Annual Report
10.
In case of Independent Directors, 
justification for choosing the appointee
Not Applicable
11.
Directorships, Memberships / Chairmanship of Committees
Name of domestic companies in which 
director
Name of committees in which member / chairman
Suzlon Energy Limited
Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Member
Securities Issue Committee, Chairman
Risk Management Committee, Chairman
Audit Committee, Member
CSR Committee, Chairman
Suzlon Global Services Limited
Audit Committee, Member
Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Member
CSR Committee, Chairman
SE Forge Limited
Audit Committee, Member
Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Member
CSR Committee, Chairman
Suzlon Gujarat Wind Park Limited
Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Member
CSR Committee, Chairman
Tanti Holdings Private Limited
CSR Committee, Chairman
Samanvaya Holdings Private Limited
None
Silectro Enterprise Private Limited
None
Skeiron Green Energy Private Limited
None
Skeiron Equipment Private Limited
None
"Suzlon" 5, Shrimali Society,
Near Shri Krishna Complex, Navrangpura,
Ahmedabad - 380 009, India.
Tel: +91 79 6604 5000
Fax: +91 79 2656 5540
Group Headquarters:
One Earth, Hadapsar,
Pune - 411 028, India.
Tel: +91 20 6702 2000 / 6135 6135
Fax: +91 20 6702 2100
www.suzlon.com
Concept and Design by Report Yak  | contact@reportyak.com
Suvarda Wind Farm, Gujarat, India
